The retirement age in Japan will be increased from 60-65 to 70 years and will be the same for both men and women, announced Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori on Thursday. This decision is due to Japan having the highest life expectancy and the lowest birth rate in the world, as reported by RBC. Yoshiro Mori also proposed reducing the number of civil servants by 25 percent over the next ten years. As previously reported, the Russian government has rejected a similar idea to raise the retirement age of Russians to 65 years - by five years for men and ten for women. Meanwhile, Russia is also experiencing an aging population process, caused by low birth rates. Its cause is of a different nature than in Japan, and is associated with a low standard of living.
Deputies of the State Duma Anatoly Kulikov, Nikolai Bezborodov, and Valery Dorogin on Tuesday proposed considering a number of amendments to the state law "On Military Duty and Military Service". As reported by the radio station "Echo of Moscow", among the proposed changes is the cancellation of deferrals for draftees caring for elderly pension-age individuals if the latter do not actually require such care. The authors also suggest not providing deferment to individuals serving in tax police agencies, customs, as well as teachers of rural schools who work part-time. At the same time, the possibility of introducing deferment for citizens whose wives are on maternity leave is being considered.
Since 2003, Russia has proposed increasing the retirement age to 65 years - by five years for men, and by ten years for women, reports "Echo of Moscow". Such a proposal is contained in the program prepared by the Center for Strategic Research of German Gref. The program is presented for consideration to the government and may become the basis of the economic program of the new cabinet. Experts of the Center refer to the data of the State Statistics Committee, according to which in 1998 in Russia, there were 711 dependents per thousand people of working age, and by 2015, about a third of the working population will be aged 45 years and older. Meanwhile, as Interfax reports, the average life expectancy in Russia is now no more than 67 years. Most men will not live to the new retirement age - their lifespan, according to statistics, averages 61 years and 4 months. Women live longer, on average 72 years and 11 months.