The Ministry of Finance has proposed cutting spending by 268 billion rubles in 2014 and saving up to 500 billion rubles in the next two years. The Kommersant newspaper reports about this in its September 17 issue, citing anonymous sources. The initiatives of the Finance Ministry were presented on September 16 at a working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. According to the newspaper, the Finance Ministry's proposals have not yet been approved by the government. The previous time the Ministry of Finance made amendments to the budget at a meeting with the Prime Minister on September 11-12. Then the head of the Ministry of Finance Anton Siluanov proposed to redistribute annually in the next three years from 100 to 300 billion rubles. The most ambitious proposal of the financial department remains the reduction of five percent of all budget expenditures, except for social obligations. This could bring to the treasury 69.5 billion rubles in 2014, 73.3 and 76.4 billion rubles in 2015 and 2016, respectively. The Finance Ministry also proposes to change the pension reform by transferring the funds of "silent pensioners" from the state pension fund to the solidarity system. This move will generate up to 102.2 billion rubles in 2014, and for 2015-2016 the savings will reach a total of 259.2 billion rubles. The refusal to index payments to military personnel in 2014 will save the budget 31.1 billion rubles, but in 2015-2016 the treasury will save 125.8 and 127.1 billion rubles, respectively. The savings are planned to be used to support medium and small businesses - 86 billion rubles in 2014 and up to 96.3 billion rubles in 2016. The Ministry of Economic Development may receive a total of up to 30 billion rubles for guarantee funds for small and medium-sized businesses in 2014-2015. Regional and local budgets will receive 20 billion rubles in 2014 and 30 billion rubles in 2015. The most significant investments - 90 billion rubles in 2014 and 70 billion rubles in 2015 are reserved for "additional state support for organizations and citizens." The Finance Ministry does not explain what is behind this wording. The draft budget should be considered by the government on September 19. Working consultations will continue until then, Dmitry Medvedev's press secretary Natalia Timakova told Kommersant. On September 12, the Finance Ministry warned of a 1.7 trillion-ruble reduction in non-resource budget revenues over the next three years. In order to minimize the negative consequences of the lack of funds, the finance ministry will conduct a "budget maneuver" - as part of the reduction of expenditure items, a "pool of funds" will be created, which will then be allocated to priority areas. President Vladimir Putin acknowledged the need to cut spending for the first time on September 1. During an interview on September 4, he refused to call the budget savings a sequester.

The communal services of the capital are testing a new means to protect the entrances of residential buildings - the so-called elevator phones, which is a kind of intercom, arranged not at the entrance to the entrance, but at the entrance to the elevator. This is reported by its own correspondent Lenta.Ru. As you know, code locks, protecting today the front doors of most Moscow entrances, are not able to serve as a serious obstacle to uninvited guests. To solve this problem, Moscow utility workers have come up with a new tool: the stairs leading upstairs, to block the lattice, and the elevator call button blocked by a special device that can be unlocked only with a special key. In case a person comes to visit without having agreed in advance with the owners, he can try to go upstairs by making an agreement with the duty officer through a special intercom device installed next to the call button. The duty officer is supposed to be appointed from among the residents of the entrance, presumably from non-working pensioners. It is also assumed that representatives of such services as the police, fire department, Mosgaz, and ambulance will be able to enter the house without having to explain themselves to the entryway duty officer. However, the mechanism for this has not yet been thought out. It is also obvious that under such a system the residents of the first floors will be unprotected. It is planned to start the experiment with one of the houses on Chertanovskaya Street, where the corresponding equipment has already been installed, but has not yet been put into operation.

The owner of the cafe "Idel" in Ufa will pay 45 thousand rubles in compensation to a 29-year-old local resident for hot soup spilled on her, according to the website of the Bashkirian Prosecutor's Office. According to the agency, the incident occurred in August last year. The waitress tipped a plate with its contents on the girl, after which she stumbled and fell. As a result, the visitor received thermal burns on her chest, as well as bruised elbow. None of the employees of the establishment came to help the girl. There was no medical kit in the cafe either. One of the visitors of the cafe helped the victim - he called the doctors, noted in the regional prosecutor's office. The Ufa girl appealed to the court with a demand to compensate for the moral and material damage caused to her. The court recovered 45 thousand rubles from the cafe owner. In September, the Tverskoy court of Moscow recovered 320 thousand rubles from "McDonald's" in favor of Alexei Karelov, a resident of the capital, for hot coffee spilled on his daughter. The incident took place in April, when an employee of the establishment knocked over a glass with a drink on a three-year-old girl standing at the cash register. The child was hospitalized with first-degree burns to the neck and torso.

A warehouse with weapons was found on Saturday while extinguishing a fire in a garage cooperative in the west of Moscow, ITAR-TASS news agency reported. According to the capital's law enforcement agencies, the signal about the fire in the garage-building cooperative "Nauka" on Vernadskogo Avenue, building 10, came at 14:55. By the arrival of firefighters 8 metal boxes were covered by fire. The total area of the fire was 80 square meters, and in an hour it was completely eliminated. To prevent the spread of fire and damage to property, firefighters had to open the garages. In one of them was found a cache with two grenade launchers in undamaged factory packaging. Representatives of law enforcement authorities of the capital arrived at the scene, who will have to find out the origin of the weapons. Recall, August 23, the police found a warehouse with weapons and ammunition in the apartment of an elderly Muscovite, living in a house on Veshnyakovskaya Street. The pensioner kept a pistol "Victoria-Patent" caliber 6.35 millimeters, 10 hand grenades, eight fuses for grenades, and more than 90 cartridges of various calibers. And last week, a large amount of explosives and weapons - about 60 kilograms of TNT, several dozen pistols, automatic rifles, machine guns and a large amount of ammunition - was also found in one of the apartments of a residential building on Pererva Street.

Business social network LinkedIn has banned prostitutes from offering services in their accounts. The network has made corresponding changes to the user agreement, reports Business Insider. According to the changes, users are prohibited to "create profiles and post content advertising escort services or prostitution," even if such activities are allowed in the user's country. Such services are also prohibited from being offered in private messages. As a LinkedIn representative explained in a comment to Mashable, the network's rules previously prohibited "illegal" activities in general, but the amendments had to be made because prostitution is legal in some countries. Providing sex services is not a crime in countries such as the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Greece, Greece, Latvia, New Zealand and several others. Prostitutes in these countries receive social benefits and pensions, and brothel staff undergo medical examinations. Also in countries such as Italy, France, Poland, Bulgaria, Estonia, India, Canada and some others, sex for money is not considered a crime, but procuring, advertising of sex services and human trafficking are prohibited by law. The social network LinkedIn was created in 2003. It positions itself as a network for professionals and provides an opportunity to post resumes and publish vacancies, as well as to establish working contacts. In total, the network is used by more than 200 million people.

In the Omsk city of Neftyanikov 8-year-old schoolgirl fell out of the second floor of the school № 82, trying to get out of the locked library. This was reported by the mother of the injured girl Maria Pyatkova, writes "Komsomolskaya Pravda". The woman said that doctors suspect her daughter has a fracture of the thoracic spine - Rita can not sit, and she was allowed to sleep only without a pillow. It is noted that the girl will have to wear a special corset. At the same time, the school employee told the mother that the girl fell out of the first floor. According to the mother, she brought her daughter 10 minutes before the start of classes. Before lessons, the girl decided to go to the library, located on the second floor of the school. The librarian did not notice her and locked the room. The teacher who was teaching the class had left for a seminar and was replaced by another teacher who did not notice Rita's absence. The mother also said that Rita shouted and knocked but was not heard, eventually she leaned out of the window and started shouting to passers-by to open the door, but she couldn't hold on and fell. The school claims that the girl herself opened the window for some reason, but, according to her mother, "even an adult has a hard time doing that." "After what happened, the director called me, offered me money. She promised to compensate the costs of Rita's treatment. But the lawyer advises to solve everything only in court," said Pyatkova, noting that the teachers are trying to blame everything on the child. She also added that the librarian continues to work at the school. Tatyana Shuteleva, deputy director for educational work at School No. 82, confirmed that such an incident did occur when the librarian "literally for five minutes" went to the toilet. According to her, the girl herself opened the window, as the bell had rung and she was afraid of being late for the lesson. Shuteleva noted that the school is ready to provide assistance to Rita and her family. The Investigative Committee opened a criminal case under Article 293 of the Criminal Code ("Negligence"). Earlier in Novokuznetsk, a local resident tried to climb down the sheets in the store to have time to buy alcohol. She fell from the second floor and ended up in hospital. Eyewitnesses called an ambulance and police to the scene. The woman was taken to hospital.

Journalists in Greece are going on a one-day strike on Wednesday, October 1, according to the website of the Greek television channel ERT. On that day there will be no newscasts on TV and radio, websites will not be updated and no newspapers will be published in Greece on Thursday. The strike is organized by the Panhellenic Federation of Journalists' Unions (Panhellenic Federation of Journalists' Unions). Thus, journalists are protesting against the implementation of pension reforms in the country, which provides for the unification of all pension funds into one. The striking journalists were joined by other Greek labor unions, such as the scientific workers' union. Employment Minister Fani Palli-Petralia said the day before that the social security reform in Greece will be finalized in any case. Mass protests against raising the retirement age took place in the country in 2007. According to RIA Novosti, in the event that on Wednesday there are extraordinary events in the country that require immediate media coverage, the strike committee will grant permission for the news to be aired

Chinese married couple Wu Qunhan and Wu Sunshi, who have lived in legal marriage for 88 years, finally managed to form their wedding album. As The Sun writes, the pensioners were given a holiday photo shoot, and the family gladly accepted the gift. In the pictures, 101-year-old Wu Tsunhan and his 103-year-old wife Wu Sunshi are depicted in wedding outfits. The "bride" is wearing a milk-colored long lace dress and veil, while the "groom" is wearing a suit with a bow tie. Woo Sunshi is holding a bouquet of red roses. Wu Sunshi and Wu Tsunhan did not have the opportunity to be photographed on their wedding day. The newspaper notes that in 1924, cameras were not common in China, so the married couple did not capture that solemn day. Now a Chinese company specializing in photography is offering wedding photo sessions to elderly couples to finally collect or restore their wedding albums.

The government has not yet decided on the issue of re-indexation of pensions in 2016, Prime Minister's press secretary Natalia Timakova said. This was reported by TASS on Tuesday, May 24. "No decision to cancel the second indexation has been made yet," she said, recalling that pensions were raised by four percent at the beginning of the year. The spokeswoman confirmed that the decision on the second indexation by four percent will be made at the end of the first half of the year, as previously planned. "There is another month and a half to assess the socio-economic situation," Timakova added. The day before, on May 23, footage of Medvedev's conversation with Crimean residents who complained that "it is impossible to live on a pension, prices are rabid" was published. In response, the head of the government referred to the lack of funds and assured that "there is no indexation anywhere at all." "We will find the money - we will do it," he added. The Kremlin refused to comment on Medvedev's statements. Pensions to Russians were indexed this year by four percent. Earlier, the increase was carried out by the inflation rate recorded at the end of the previous year. In 2015, inflation amounted to 12.9 percent.

The Ministry of Finance will develop a universal pension product to be offered to citizens by banks, insurance companies and non-governmental pension funds (NPFs). The Vedomosti newspaper writes about this in its August 2 issue with reference to the relevant draft law. Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, who supervises social issues in the government, gave the order to develop the product. It is assumed that this universal product will become an alternative in case the funded part of the pension is canceled or reduced. The terms of such products have not been defined, but it is known that the term of participation in the new funded program will be at least 10 years. In turn, the Ministry of Finance proposes to encourage employers and citizens to participate in the new funded system through tax incentives. Contributions to the pension program and income from their investment will not be taxed. So far, investment income from pension money in voluntary insurance is taxable. The bill should come into force in 2014. So far, banks cannot place Russian pension savings on their accounts. Citizens' money is managed by non-state pension funds, which invest it in securities. The funds of people who have not transferred their money to one or another NPF (the so-called "silents") are managed by the state-owned VEB. It invests funds mainly in government bonds. Now the volume of pension reserves is about 700 billion rubles, the total amount of pension savings equals 1.9 trillion. Back in March, Russian President Vladimir Putin urged in one of his articles to place pension money in bank accounts. The government is currently discussing a possible reduction in the funded part of the pension, which is paid as part of insurance contributions and amounts to 6 percent of the payroll. The Labor Ministry proposes to reduce the funded component to 2 percent and instead develop corporate pension programs. According to calculations by the Russian Pension Fund (PFR), so far the return on citizens' pension savings remains below inflation. From 2004 to 2011, the insurance part of the pension increased by 337 percent, while the accumulated inflation amounted to 215 percent. At the same time, the pension savings of citizens managed by VEB increased by 149 percent, and those of NPFs by 159 percent.

Subsidizing the Ukrainian energy sector cost Russia 3 to 5 billion dollars annually. Russian President Vladimir Putin said this at a news conference in the Kremlin. According to him, Russia is "not turning up its nose" at new prices for energy resources supplied to CIS countries and Western Europe. "We have been talking about market prices for a long time," Putin explained. "The FRG is spending money to raise the economy of the eastern states, but they are paying for the unification of the nation, and what are we paying for?" the Russian leader remarked, adding that Russia's subsidies to the Russian Federation are still "not noticed by anyone, as if that's the way it should be." According to Putin, Russia has "its own economy, its own citizens, pensioners, servicemen, and other budgetary employees, and we have been talking about market prices for a long time." He also emphasized that "there is no voluntarism in any of the decisions in the transition to market prices." "That's when we concluded one contract every year and determined the terms of supply, and in another part of this contract negotiated the supply of our gas to Europe, then Europe depended on our supplies. And prices were determined for political reasons. Now we have switched to a clear formula of determination," the president said. "Subsidizing the former republics of the Soviet Union at the expense of Russian consumers, at the expense of Russian citizens, has been going on for 15 years," the president emphasized, adding that, for example, U.S. aid to Ukraine last year amounted to only 174 million dollars.

A 94-year-old man in Japan has cashed in all his savings to use as collateral for the general election, The Daily Telegraph reported on Saturday. The amount cashed in amounted to three million yen (about $36,000), which the pensioner was saving for his own funeral. Ryokichi Kawashima said he decided to enter politics to protect the younger generation from making mistakes and went to the polls "on behalf of the weak." In addition, the oldest candidate in the lower house election is worried about rivals who often talk about the armed forces. The veteran, who fought in China for seven years, is concerned about "what Japan has become." General elections will be held in Japan on Sunday. There will be 1,504 candidates vying for 480 seats in the lower house of parliament. The youngest candidate is 24 years old.

Losses of the European division of Ford Motor at the end of January-September this year amounted to 1.021 billion dollars. This is reported in the report of the automaker for the third quarter. For comparison, for the first nine months of 2011, the company earned 163 million dollars. In July-September, Ford Europe's loss amounted to 468 million dollars. The automaker made up for the European division's losses with profits in North America, which totaled $2.3 billion in the third quarter ($1.55 billion in the same period last year). As a result, Ford Motor's July-September profit topped $1.57 billion. The company earned $1.36 billion in the third quarter of last year. Ford expects the European division's loss to be at least $1.5 billion this year, and the same amount next year. In the middle of last week, the U.S. automaker announced the closure of one plant in Belgium and two in the United Kingdom. As a result, as calculated in the company itself, 5.7 thousand people will lose their jobs. In August this year, sales of new cars in Europe fell by 8.9 percent to a 22-year low of 688 thousand units. Ford sales fell the most - by 29 percent. In September, much more cars were sold - almost 1.1 million - but the results of the first month of fall were still lower by 10.8 percent than in the same period a year earlier.

The owner of a shopping center in Opalikha complained to the Investigative Committee that businessman Amiran Georgadze, who later became known as the "Krasnogorsk shooter", and other people known in the district had imposed a tribute on all entrepreneurs. According to the Izvestia newspaper, the application was filed a day before the shooting in the district administration. According to a source in the law enforcement agencies, the victim was allegedly extorted 5 million rubles. Among Georgadze's accomplices, the businessman named the president of a sports club, relatives of a thief-in-law who recently died in Krasnogorsk, and other people close to crime. In May 2015, according to his testimony, the extortionists came to the victim and forced him to sign an agreement that they allegedly gave him 5 million rubles for business development at 10 percent interest per month, that is, he had to pay them 500 thousand each month. As it is explained, such agreements were signed so that in case of detention the extortionists could say that they were allegedly talking about the payment of debt. In September Georgadze allegedly demanded payment of 5 million rubles. The businessman feared that after that he would be imposed a new "loan", so he decided to report the extortion. He also said that in addition to extortion Georgadze and his "colleagues" were engaged in raiding. They forced businessmen to introduce new shareholders in their companies, who subsequently changed general directors and gained control over the enterprise. According to the victim, this allegedly happened with one of the local equestrian sports clubs in Krasnogorsk district - the new co-owners of this club were the children of Georgadze and a well-known thief in law in Krasnogorsk. Currently, investigators are looking for those who could still suffer from the racketeers' activities. According to investigators, on October 19, Georgadze shot and killed Yuri Karaulov, the first deputy head of the Krasnogorsk district, and Georgy Kotlyarenko, the head of the local power grid. While hiding from the police, he shot a pensioner, an employee of the security service of the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper. Later, during a search of the entrepreneur's apartment, investigators discovered the body of Tristan Zakaidze, Georgadze's partner in the construction business. Georgadze's corpse was found on October 23 in the village of Timoshkino, Krasnogorsk district, in a house that is next door to the summer house of Boris Rasskazov, head of the district administration. The investigation does not rule out that he was the next target of the "Krasnogorsk shooter". According to preliminary data, Georgadze committed suicide.

The Estonian authorities have decided to expel from the country a group of Russian military pensioners, whom the country's government has refused to extend their residence permits, Interfax news agency reports. The Estonian Interior Ministry said that the Russians will be ordered to leave the country and, in case of disobedience, will be forcibly expelled. The pensioners and their family members tried to appeal against the orders of the Estonian Interior Ministry in courts of different instances, but did not achieve satisfaction of the claims. The cassation appeal sent to the Estonian State Court was also rejected. According to the Estonian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the pensioners have the right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, but the fact of filing a complaint does not give them the right to ignore the decision of the Estonian authorities. According to the decision of the State Court, Estonia is not obliged to grant residence permits to the military pensioners who received new housing in Russia thanks to an international aid program. All the plaintiffs wanted to remain living in Estonia, even though they had received apartments in Russia under this program. According to the court, the pensioners had knowingly participated in the assistance program and knew that they would have to leave Estonia. The court also noted that the Estonian government had acted strictly in accordance with the Aliens Act. This law provides for the granting of residence permits to military pensioners of foreign countries only on an exceptional basis.

American actor Jack Nicholson has finished his career as a movie actor. This was announced by his friend, artist Peter Fonda, reports The Sun. "I think he actually retired," noted Fonda. He emphasized that he did not know the reason for such a decision of the actor. The last released movie with Nicholson to date is the comedy "How Do You Know..." (How Do You Know?). The tape, which also starred Reese Witherspoon, Paul Rudd and Owen Wilson, was released in December 2010. Jack Nicholson, 79, is an American actor and director. He has been nominated for an Oscar 12 times and has won the award three times. Nicholson is the winner of three BAFTA awards and seven Golden Globes. During his 60-year career, he has starred in such films as The Departed, Better Off, Wolf, Batman, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Chinatown, and Stanley Kubrick's The Shining.

Three long-distance passenger trains have been delayed in the Slyudyanka district of the Irkutsk region due to an accident on the East Siberian Railway of the Trans-Siberian Railway, Interfax news agency reports. In addition, due to the suspension of traffic at the Slyudyanka-Utulik crossing, the routes of suburban trains have been changed. It will take at least two hours to restore traffic, ITAR-TASS reports. In the morning on Saturday, January 12, from 21 to 24 cars with coal derailed at the Slyudyanka-Utulik crossing, according to different data. As a result, the crew of the shunting locomotive, which was traveling on the oncoming track, died - the driver Ivan Aschenkov and his assistant Alexander Konev. The accident damaged a section of the railroad bed about a hundred meters long and four contact supports. As reported by the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, a criminal case has been opened on the accident under Part 3 of Article 263 of the Criminal Code (violation of safety rules of movement and operation of railway transport, causing the death of two or more persons by negligence). Trains number 8 (Novosibirsk-Vladivostok), number 78 (Novosibirsk-Neryungri) and number 350 (Moscow-Blagoveshchensk) were detained at Slyudyanka station. Passengers are provided with water and hot meals. The movement of suburban trains along the emergency section is compensated by buses. It is expected that the work of the railroad will be restored not earlier than six o'clock in the evening local time (one o'clock in the afternoon in Moscow). The agency "Prime" reports that to investigate the accident, eliminate its consequences and help the families of the victims, Minister of Transport Maxim Sokolov on the instructions of Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich created a commission, headed by Deputy Head of the Ministry of Transport Alexei Tsydenov. The commission includes representatives of Roszheldor, Russian Railways, of which the East Siberian Railway is a branch, Rostransnadzor and the regional administration.

The budget deficit in 2016 will go beyond the forecast limits (three percent of GDP) in case of additional indexation of pensions in the fall, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said. This was reported by RIA Novosti on Thursday, May 26. "Undoubtedly, this topic will go beyond the forecast deficit that we called. As we agreed, this decision will be considered based on the results of budget execution for the first half of the year," the minister said. Siluanov also said that in 2016 the Russian authorities can take more than 2.1 trillion rubles from the Reserve Fund to cover the budget deficit. According to him, the state budget includes an oil price of 50 dollars per barrel. "Now the average annual price since the beginning of the year is less than 40 dollars. At a price of $40 per barrel, we estimate the deficit at about 3.3 percent of GDP," said the Finance Minister. He also said that with the implementation of all measures envisioned by the government, the deficit will be about three percent. Siluanov promised that the government will try to minimize spending of reserves so that Russia will still have a financial safety cushion. From January to April 2016, Russia's federal budget deficit amounted to 1.23 trillion rubles. The 2016 budget was adopted with a deficit of 2.36 trillion rubles (three percent of GDP). It assumes an average annual cost of Urals oil of 50 dollars per barrel. Expected revenues of the treasury at such a cost of hydrocarbons will amount to Br13.74 trillion, while expenditures - Br16.1 trillion. Due to the fall in oil quotations, the budget parameters may be revised.

The Los Angeles City Council has awarded a black firefighter $2.7 million dollars in compensation as the victim of a racist joke, The Los Angeles Times reports. The victim, Tenny Pierce, with the help of his attorneys, proved that when his coworkers put canned dog food in his spaghetti, they wanted to humiliate him on racial grounds. Pierce's defense team enlisted David Wellman, a sociology professor at the University of California at Santa Cruz, as an expert witness. In his view, "the association of the black man with dog food has deep historical roots connected to the days of slavery and the corresponding derogatory treatment." The sociologist also explained why Pierce considered his colleagues' joke a manifestation of "racial harassment." According to Wellman, black people have experienced humiliation for more than 300 years, and so "they have a gyroscope that identifies hostile treatment, even though it may not appear so to others." The plaintiff accused three coworkers of harassment, one of whom put dog food in Pierce's lunch, another of whom bought dog food, and a third of whom, knowing of the impending prank, failed to warn the victim. The lawsuit states that when Pierce began eating lunch "he noticed the other firefighters laughing and making all sorts of noises." He asked them what he was eating, but no one told him the truth. Pierce then left the firehouse kitchen while his coworkers continued to laugh at him. The Fire Department conducted its own investigation into the incident and concluded that the coworkers wanted to "humiliate" Pierce because his team won a game of volleyball. The defendants' attorney argued that it was a "good-natured prank" in no way motivated by racial bias. As a result of the lawsuit, two superior firefighting officers were stripped of a month's pay, and another had three days' earnings withheld. However, the financial claims were not against them, but against the city, whose management allowed the conditions for such an incident to be created. Pierce claimed that for another year after the October 2004 incident, he was subjected to "verbal discrediting, insults and degrading remarks." Specifically, his coworkers, in the presence of superior officers, "barked doggy-style and asked him what dog food tasted like." As a result of the lawsuit, in addition to compensation, Pierce was allowed to be on authorized leave with full pay until April of next year, when he turns 20 years as a firefighter. After that, he will be able to retire with a lifetime pension equal to half his current salary. The only City Council member who voted against the compensation was Dennis Zine, who has 38 years of police service. He called the $2.7 million payout outrageous because the victim's health was not seriously and permanently damaged. Zain also stated that although he believes that the joke on Pierce lacked racial overtones, the prank itself was disgusting but not life threatening. He was therefore surprised that the case was costing taxpayers such a large sum. Currently, of the 3,600 Los Angeles firefighters, 53 percent are white, 29 are of Hispanic descent, 12 are African-American and 5 percent are of Asian descent and their descendants.

In the Tula region, police detained a pensioner who, under the guise of a producer, stole money from participants of an all-Russian music contest. This was reported on the website of the Russian Interior Ministry on Monday, December 17. The 70-year-old woman found on the Internet participants who did not pass to the finals of the contest, contacted them by phone or in messenger. Introducing herself as an employee of a media holding with great connections, she offered the artists assistance for a fee. She asked for 6,000 to 28,000 rubles for the preparation of a song, a video clip or an additional rehearsal. The money had to be transferred to the "producer's" bank card. As a result, the pensioner managed to deceive four musicians from Moscow, Tyumen and Voronezh. The money transferred by the suspect cashed in an ATM in the city of Suvorov. The woman's criminal scheme was discovered by police officers together with the security service of the media holding. The pensioner was detained, a criminal case of fraud was opened against her. On December 14, it was reported that in Pskov a criminal case was opened against a former bailiff and her accomplices for embezzlement of money from the accounts of disabled people.

The Ministry of Communications has begun to develop an online lending mechanism which will allow a client wishing to obtain a loan not to visit a bank office. This is reported by the Izvestia newspaper. After approval of the loan application, which the client can submit through the Internet Bank, the funds will be credited to his account or card. Now a similar practice is used by microfinance organizations. In banks, you can apply for a loan via the Internet now, but you can get a loan only at the branch with a passport. In the near future, the Ministry of Communications will hold a closed meeting with representatives of major banks, where the details of the mechanism of online lending will be discussed. The source explained that the introduction of the online lending mechanism is the next stage in the development of the scheme for banks to receive data on the income of Russians from the Russian Pension Fund via SMS. The interlocutor of the publication added that the introduction of the online-crediting mechanism is possible when the Ministry of Communications will technically finalize the module - the same one that exists for the scheme with SMS. As a result, he said, clients will be able to receive data on income in the Internet bank and send them to the credit organization. Banks, in turn, will have all the possibilities to check the solvency of citizens. In order to legalize the mechanism of online lending, amendments will be required to the regulation on the use of the Unified Identification and Authentication System, created as part of the implementation of the law on public services, and the regulation on the infrastructure of e-government. Without the participation of the Ministry of Communications and the FIU, banks can implement the online lending mechanism, but only for payroll clients whose income is clear to credit organizations.

Pensioner Vladimir Omegov has become a deputy of the Kurgan Regional Duma. He took the place of Valery Polozov, a 70-year-old CPRF deputy who passed away in February, the Ura.Ru newspaper reported. Polozov got into the Kurgan Duma after the death of another deputy Nazhmetdin Usmanov. Usmanov worked in the Duma for about a month, and Polozov - about a year, and during this time he attended only two meetings. Polozov missed the rest due to illness, according to the Datanews news portal. At the April 26 meeting, Tatyana Voinkova, vice-speaker of the regional assembly, presented Omegov with a certificate of deputy of the Kurgan Regional Duma and gave him a badge. Omegov will work in the committee on agrarian policy. According to Valery Omegov, he initially refused to accept the mandate, but gave in to the demand of voters. "We will have to tolerate and work," he stated. Vladimir Omegov, as reported by "Ura.Ru", was previously the head of the state farm "Almenevsky".

Russian Minister of Labor and Social Protection Maxim Topilin has not supported the proposal to unfreeze the funded part of pensions, which could be paid from the age of 55 for women and from 60 for men. According to TASS, the minister said at parliamentary-public hearings on improving pension legislation that this would require huge funds not provided for in the budget. "As for the funded component and the possibility of unfreezing it, there were a number of proposals in the speeches. There is a proposal - to give the opportunity to receive a funded pension at the current age. But when it comes to unfreezing the funded pension - it means from the budget to allocate an additional almost 500 billion a year," he said. According to RNS, Topilin also clarified that if we are talking about voluntary funded pension, "here, perhaps, opens up a completely different field for development". In this case, the employee must pay voluntary contributions, "if he has such an opportunity, and there is such a salary," the Minister explained. The government's proposed bill on changes to the pension system, which would raise the retirement age to 65 for men and 63 for women, passed its first reading in the State Duma on July 19. Proposals for amendments are being collected from August 18 to September 24.

The Ukrainian government has decided to provide financial assistance to the families and relatives of the submariners killed in the Barents Sea, according to a correspondent of the Krasnaya Zvezda newspaper in Kiev. According to some sources, twenty-eight Ukrainians or natives of Ukraine, including ten officers, were on the Kursk submarine at the time of the accident. According to government secretary Viktor Lisitsky, material assistance will be provided to the relatives of the dead sailors both in the form of monetary compensation, the amounts of which are still being specified, and by providing free transportation to Severomorsk. Other expenses caused by the tragedy will also be compensated. The representative of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers emphasized that citizenship issues will not be taken into account in this situation. The relatives of Captain Rashid Aryanov and Midshipman Sergei Rychkov, who were members of the crew of the submarine Kursk, have been sent to Moscow from Uzbekistan, Interfax reported. The trip was facilitated by the Russian Embassy in Tashkent. Diplomats raised funds for the relatives of the sailors to travel to Severomorsk, and the Uzbek national airline Uzbekistan Havo Yullari provided them with free tickets to Moscow. The relatives of the submariners have already left for Moscow, from where they will be sent to Severomorsk by a special flight. The Russian Embassy in Estonia is opening a bank account to transfer funds to help the families of the sailors. This was reported to RIA "Novosti" correspondent on Tuesday in the press service of the embassy in Tallinn. Anyone wishing to provide material assistance to the Russians can also apply directly to the embassy. It intends to keep the population of the republic informed through the local media about the transfer of funds to Russia - to the families of the crew of the Kursk submarine.

In the Chinese city of Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, a woman has sued a late condom delivery man. This is reported by AsiaOne. In August, a woman named Su ordered condoms from an online service that guarantees delivery within 20 minutes. Afterward, she took a shower but soon received a message that the courier was delayed due to bad weather. He delivered the order eight minutes later than promised. By that time, condoms were no longer needed: Su and her boyfriend couldn't resist and had sex without contraception. In September, the woman discovered she was pregnant. She then sued the courier and demanded that he pay her 30,000 yuan (270,000 rubles), compensate her for medical expenses and other expenses related to carrying the baby. "If he had come on time, none of this would have happened," Su said. In 2015, a fight between two teachers was reported because one of them stole a condom from the other. The one left without contraception discovered the missing one during an intimate moment with his female companion.

Rostov footballers beat Krasnodar in an away match of the Russian championship. The game, held in Krasnodar at the stadium "Kuban", ended with a score of 0:2. About it reports the site Championship.com. The author of the first goal was Rostov midfielder Dzhano, who hit the hosts' goal at the end of the first half. Timofey Kalachev cut out a pass, Artem Dzyuba beautifully in a fall hit the ball with his head, Andrei Sinitsyn saved the goal, but the goalkeeper could not cope with Dzhano's shot. The second goal was scored in the penalty time of the second half. Rostov striker Artem Dzyuba converted a penalty, which he himself earned.

The Russian government proposes to include the so-called "non-insurance periods" into the pension record - conscription in the army and one and a half years of childcare after the birth of a child. According to RIA "Novosti", this was announced on Monday at a meeting of the President with members of the Cabinet of Ministers by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov. In addition, the government is in favor of doubling the social deduction from income tax for a child. Now, according to Zhukov, such a deduction is 300 rubles per child, and after that it will be 600 rubles. "The income tax will be reduced by this amount. And this is the money that will remain in the family," said Deputy Prime Minister. Recall that recently Zhukov denied information about the government's forthcoming proposals to increase the retirement age. Earlier it was reported that in connection with the steady "aging" of the Russian population, the Ministry of Health has developed a plan suggesting that the retirement age for women will be raised from 55 to 60 years, and for men - from 60 to 63 years.

A Wells Fargo Bank branch in San Diego was attacked twice by two different robbers on Oct. 1, according to Fox News. Neither robber has been apprehended. The agency does not say whether the attackers were able to get the money. A robber with a gun, known to federal agents as the "chatty bandit," broke into the bank branch at 3 p.m. (4 a.m. EDT). He is wanted for at least nine bank robberies since March 2008, six of them in San Diego County. Three hours later, another robber showed up at the bank and handed employees a note demanding money. He is known to authorities as the "hard hat bandit" and has committed three bank robberies in the past week alone. 2008 has been a year rich in robbery curiosities. For example, in March, a robber arrived at a Citizens and Northern Bank branch in Pennsylvania after closing time, knocked on the locked doors and drove away. Bank employees recorded the license plate number of his car, and police apprehended the intruder. In February 2008, an Italian robber gave a bouquet of flowers to a teller whom he had threatened with a gun the previous day. The girl immediately called the police.

The self-proclaimed King of Ukraine-Russia Orestes I, who arrived in Zaporozhye to establish relations with extraterrestrial beings, made contact with an alien woman. About it reports TV channel STB with reference to the words of ufologist Victor Tsarinnyk, who accompanied the monarch. Pensioner Tsarinnyk heads the Department of UFO research in the local Cossack army. On his pension he purchased a video camera to film the aliens. Thanks to this, the ufologist has confirmation of the encounter of Orestes I with extraterrestrial intelligence: pictures showing a humanoid. "After the UFO disappeared, a woman appeared near the tent where the king was sleeping. And indeed, apparently there was contact because she started talking to him. I was dumbfounded," Tsarinnik said. Cossack ufologist regularly observes UFOs on the forest belt, located near his village in the Zaporozhye region. The exact place where the aliens landed Tsarinnik does not disclose, so that the curious people do not run there. According to his data, the last time high alien activity in Zaporozhye was observed before the 2004 presidential election; now unidentified flying objects often appear in the sky again. Orest I (aka Orest Fedorovich Karelin-Romanishin-Rusin) was born in 1950 in Lviv. In the 1990s, he became fascinated with the idea of creating a Ukrainian kingdom. In 1998, Karelin crowned himself in Warsaw. The king decided to turn to alien intelligence, desperate to get recognition in his homeland. Orestes I planned to discuss the fate of the country with aliens: "If our deputies are not able to put such a rich state in order, I think that the Entities will help me as a king.

In Thailand's Chonburi province, a python crawled into a rabbit house and swallowed a hand rabbit. This is reported by the website Newsflare. Amporn Sirimaha (Amporn Sirimaha), 57, noticed the 4.9-meter-long snake when he came to feed three rabbits that lived in his yard. "Seeing the python under the roof was a shock, but what shocked me even more was the disappearance of the brown rabbit," he recalls. By the bulge on the reptile's belly, it was clear where the pet had gone. Sirimaha started making noise to chase the snake away, but it stayed put. Because of the rabbit in her belly, she was stuck between the roof of the rabbit house and the wooden bar. It could only wait for its prey to digest. The man had to call a snake handler. The specialist threw a noose over the python's head, pulled it out and released it at a safe distance. In 2018, it was reported that in the Thai province of Chachengsau caught a python that hid for a long time in the house of a pensioner and ate his cats. The last pet disappeared a few hours before the capture of the snake.

Compiled in the XVIII century plan for the invasion of the United Kingdom of American troops put up for auction auction auction house Bonhams, writes the British newspaper The Guardian on October 3. The plan was prepared by French General Charles Francois Dumurie in 1779, when the future United States of America fought a war of independence from Britain. A few years after the plan was written, when revolution broke out in France, Dumourieux briefly served as minister of war, and the army under his command won several important victories. Dumourier proposed to send 10,000 American troops across the Atlantic, including 500 Indians. Indian "savages", according to the French general, were to sow panic among the British. In case the natives of America could not take part in the invasion for any reason, General Dumourieux suggested that to achieve a similar effect, the American soldiers should be dressed and made up "as savages". Dumourieux's plan also detailed how many ships would be needed to transport the Americans, the number of wagons and horses needed for the land phase of the operation, and the possible disposition of the British troops that would have to be engaged. Whether anyone in the United States leadership managed to familiarize themselves with the plan Dumurier, writes The Guardian, and what was their reaction, is not known. Dumurie, who left in 1793 the French army, from 1804 and until his death, which occurred in 1823, lived in the UK, receiving a government pension. The auction of Dumourieux's plan to land American troops in Britain will be held in London on October 6, 2009. The organizers of the auction plan to proceed for the manuscript 1-1,5 thousand pounds sterling.

The UN Human Rights Committee made a decision on the case of Belarusian opposition activist Mikhail Marynich, convicted on charges of theft, writes "Kommersant. Representatives of the organization concluded that his trial was unfair, while the defendant was subjected to torture. According to the committee, the Belarusian authorities should pay compensation to the oppositionist. The HRC formulated its position on the case of six years ago. In 2004, recall, Mikhail Marynich, former Minister of Foreign Economic Relations of Belarus, was accused of stealing computers from the U.S. Embassy in Minsk. Despite the fact that the diplomatic mission denied the theft (they said that the computers were given to Marinich for free use), the charges against him were not dropped. In December 2004, the oppositionist was sentenced to five years in a strict regime colony. Marinich was released early (he was released in 2006). He himself claimed that he was persecuted for political reasons. The oppositionist tried to appeal the decision of the court, which found him guilty, but was unsuccessful. In 2006, as "Charter'97" reported, his appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court of the Republic. After that Marinich decided to appeal to the Human Rights Committee. Mikhail Marynich tried to run for president of Belarus in 2001, but failed to get registered. Subsequently, he reportedly took part in the creation of the bloc "For New Belarus" (which later became a foundation registered in Moscow). The Belarusian authorities claimed that the oppositionist received funding from Russia. At the same time, it was emphasized that the money was not allocated by the Russian authorities. "They [oppositionists] take money, then work it off, and they work it off badly. They'll steal it too," said Alexander Lukashenko on this occasion. Now the HRC, according to "Kommersant," offered the Belarusian authorities to take care of the treatment of the oppositionist (whose health deteriorated in the colony) and compensate him for the damage. Meanwhile, Belarusian lawyer Harry Pahaniaila, representing the local organization of the Helsinki Citizens' Assembly, expressed doubt that the committee's decision would have consequences. According to him, the HRC made similar decisions with regard to several dozens of Belarusian citizens. But the authorities of the republic refused to implement them, referring to the fact that the decisions are advisory in nature.

In the Kostroma region, a double murder committed by a 22-year-old local resident to cover up the theft of 900 rubles has been solved. Details of the incident are reported on the website of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation. According to the investigation, the detained previously convicted young man, whose name is not reported, on the night of February 12, broke into the apartment of his acquaintances pensioners born in 1948 and 1952 in the village of Kosmynino. There he openly stole 900 rubles from one of them and fled. Some time later, the suspect returned to the apartment and stabbed the victims several times. According to investigators, the young man feared that the pensioners would report the theft to law enforcement authorities. As specified GTRK Kostroma with reference to the investigative authorities, after that the suspect fled the scene of the crime and went to Kostroma. There he got rid of the instrument of crime and hid at his acquaintances. As a result of operational measures the young man was detained. The criminal case was initiated under paragraph "a" of part 2 of article 105 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (murder of two persons), which provides for imprisonment up to life imprisonment. This is not the first murder in the region for the last month, committed for the purpose of theft. Thus, on February 7, a young resident of Kostroma killed his friend with a hammer for a gold chain to pay off his debts. The suspect was detained. A criminal case was initiated.

Members of the trade union of workers at the Ford plant in Vsevolozhsk have started an Italian-style strike, Vedomosti reports. Now Ford employees will perform only the work stipulated by the regulations. It is expected that this action will not cause serious damage, as the production will be reduced only by one or two cars per day. For comparison, in 2004 the Ford plant in Vsevolozhsk produced almost 30 thousand Ford cars. According to Alexey Etmanov, the leader of the trade union, during the production process there are not rare cases of short technological stops of the conveyor for 5-10 seconds. These downtimes the plant management asks to catch up. Now the "Italian" strikers do not intend to do it. However, the union members do not intend to refuse from additional Saturday shifts, which are paid in double amount. Interestingly, according to some reports, short stops of the conveyor are provided for by the factory technology and are compensated at the expense of Saturday shifts. On the evening of November 2, workers at the Ford Motor Company plant in Vsevolozhsk already held a warning one-hour strike and stopped the conveyor. About 350 night shift workers took part in the strike. The main demand of employees at the plant, located in the Leningrad region, is a 30 percent wage increase. An hour's downtime cost the plant only 78 thousand rubles.

On Friday, February 26, the municipal authorities of the city of Hollywood, Florida, ordered the demolition of the house where the terrorists who rammed the World Trade Center towers with hijacked planes on September 11, 2001, lived. According to the Miami News, would-be suicide pilots Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Sheikhi rented an apartment on the second floor of an apartment building at 1818 Jackson Street (1818 Jackson St.). According to former neighbors Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Sheikhi, the building had long been in disrepair, with a lot of trash and mice. The residents are eagerly waiting to be moved to new apartments. After the Sept. 11 attack, police found breakfast leftovers and disassembled beds in the suicide bombers' apartment, indicating that they had packed in a hurry, leaving most of their belongings in the apartment. Bryan Crosman, the owner of the home destroyed Friday, said he was proud to have contributed to the destruction of a building whose existence has long cast a shadow on the city of Hollywood's history. He said it will take about two days to remove the wreckage of the building. On the vacated space Crosman plans to build a swimming pool and parking lot for residents of the neighboring building. On the morning of September 11, 2001, groups of suicide bombers hijacked four passenger airliners that were in the air. Two of the planes, piloted by Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Sheikhi, rammed into the World Trade Center towers in New York City, causing both towers to collapse. One airliner crashed into the Pentagon building, and another crashed into a field in southwestern Pennsylvania. In addition to the 19 terrorists, the attacks killed a total of 2,998 people.

In Austria discovered a sketch of the artist Gustav Klimt, which for a long time was considered lost. This is reported by the site of radio ORF. It turned out that the drawing "Two lying" was kept at the Austrian woman who worked in the Museum of Modern Art in Linz secretary, and in 1977 retired. The sketch had been kept in the museum since 1951, but when the heirs of the owner of the drawing, Olga Yeager, wanted to return the relic, her disappearance was revealed. It turned out that the secretary had kept the sketch in a drawer for years. The woman's lawyer noted that, according to the will of the deceased, it was transferred to the possession of the city administration. In January, it was reported that the painting, which three residents of the American city of Teaneck wanted to sell for 800 dollars, turned out to be a lost canvas by Rembrandt. The canvas had been hanging in the house since the 1930s, when it was purchased at an estate sale.

U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo put forward 12 conditions for a new agreement with Iran. This is reported by the Associated Press. The head of the State Department explained that Tehran should stop work on uranium enrichment and never engage in plutonium reprocessing. Also, Iran should stop the proliferation of ballistic missiles and further development of missiles. In addition, Tehran should stop supporting terrorist groups operating in the Middle East. Pompeo noted that Iran needs to withdraw all forces under Iranian command from Syria. According to him, Washington will exert serious financial pressure on Tehran to bring the Iranian authorities to the negotiating table. On May 21, Iran gave the EU an ultimatum over the nuclear deal: it will continue to abide by the nuclear agreement if the European Union compensates for the damage Tehran will suffer due to U.S. sanctions. On May 8, US President Donald Trump announced the country's withdrawal from the Iran nuclear agreement, a deal that placed limits on Tehran's nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of UN Security Council sanctions and restrictive measures previously imposed by the US and the EU. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, for his part, said Tehran would not abandon the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and would continue to honor its commitments. EU countries have also refused to withdraw from the agreement. Tehran and six intermediary countries (Russia, the US, the UK, China, France, Germany) agreed on the terms of the Iranian nuclear program in the summer of 2015. Under the agreement, Iran refuses to further develop the program in exchange for the lifting of sanctions. Restrictions for the republic, including on oil exports, were lifted in January 2016.

The Investigative Committee of the Russian Prosecutor's Office has sent a group of top specialists to Yekaterinburg to investigate a case of a series of murders of pensioners allegedly committed by a female maniac, Rossiyskaya Gazeta reports. A total of 16 elderly women were murdered between 2002 and 2006. None of the murders were ever solved. Nevertheless, investigators believe that all of them were committed by one person, most likely a woman. Under various pretexts, she enters the apartments of pensioners and kills them. It is noted that all the victims of the maniac were killed with a blunt object. According to the testimonies of various witnesses, several sketches of the perpetrator were drawn up, which

are very similar to each other. The suspect is no older than 45 years old. She has a round brown face, straight black hair of medium length. She's between 165 and 170 centimeters tall. A distinctive feature is a satin scarf around her neck. It has not yet been possible to determine the purpose and motives of the crimes. Sometimes valuable things disappear from the apartments of the murdered, but not all of them, so robberies are unlikely to be the only explanation. Investigators are inclined to think that the murders are committed by a mentally deranged person. This is indicated by a number of circumstances: after the fifth and sixth murders at the entrance to the apartments, the numbers 5 and 6 were written on the wall with a cigarette butt. The seventh murder took place in house number 7, the eighth - in house number 8. The ninth victim was killed in apartment number 9. It is noted that in 2003, law enforcement officers detained a woman who looked like a criminal. However, it was not possible to prove her involvement in the murders and the detainee was released.

U.S. President-elect Donald Trump appealed to the invitees who refused to attend his inauguration ceremony to return their tickets. He made this appeal on the Fox & Friends program, the announcement of which is available on the Fox News website. "If people don't show up, that's fine. But let them return the tickets, we need them," the politician said. According to the Associated Press, the ceremony of assuming the office of the 45th President of the United States intends to boycott about 40 congressmen from the Democratic Party. Earlier, on January 17, in Washington, DC, in protest against the election and inauguration of Republican Donald Trump, a man tried to set himself on fire. With burns, he was taken to the hospital. At the same time, The Washington Times reported that in at least 20 American cities appeared ads with an offer for money to participate in protests about the entry into office of the President-elect of the United States Donald Trump. Thus, the company Demand Protest from San Francisco, which positions itself as "the largest private organization in the United States to provide support to the masses", is ready to pay demonstrators 2.5 thousand dollars a month, and for direct participation in the events - $50 per hour. In addition, full-time demonstrators are offered health insurance. On January 13, it was reported that thousands of Americans promised to block the ceremony of Donald Trump's inauguration. Activists said they would try to block the approaches to 12 checkpoints through which access to the building of the US Congress will be realized. It is near it that Trump will take the oath of office. In addition, the protesters intend to prevent the parade, which is to pass along Pennsylvania Avenue. The inauguration ceremony should take place on January 20.

A group of French and American scientists found evidence of the use of concrete by the ancient Egyptians in the construction of pyramids. It is assumed that this technology was used on the upper levels of the structures. The results of the study, published in the French journal "Science et Vie", quotes The Times of London. The researchers analyzed the composition and crystal lattice of blocks of limestone used in the construction of large pyramids in Giza. It turned out that the builders used not only natural stone, but also blocks made of a similar hydro-mixture - artificially obtained liquid solution of limestone mixed with lime, ash and salt. In favor of the "concrete hypothesis" is also evidenced by the appearance of many blocks: they are dense at the bottom, and in the upper part they have noticeable bubbles. The first cement blocks had a similar structure. The hypothesis of concrete used in the construction of the pyramids was first put forward in the late 1970s by French chemist Joseph Davidovits (Joseph Davidovits). The expert from the French agency of aerospace researches (ONERA) professor Gilles Hug (Gilles Hug) and the scientist from university Drexel (Pennsylvania) Michel Barsoum (Michel Barsoum) have engaged in check of his concept. Using X-rays, electron microscopes and a plasma torch, they found evidence of a "rapid chemical reaction that prevented natural crystallization." Such a phenomenon is inexplicable for natural stones, but it confirms the artificial origin of the lime blocks. Davidowitz, in turn, successfully tested the manufacture of concrete structures from limestone: at the Institute of Geopolymers in St. Quentin, he was able to produce and dry a large block in ten days on the hypothetical Egyptian technology. Opponents of the theory of Davidowitz, South and Drexel argue that the ancient Egyptians required gigantic quantities of chalk and coal to make concrete. In addition, there is no evidence of the use of molds to cast the blocks. According to the supporters of traditional views on the construction of the pyramids, the Egyptians had only simple mechanical devices and unlimited human resources for construction.

In a year's time, the entire population of Abkhazia will receive Russian citizenship. This, as RIA "Novosti" reports, was announced by President of the self-proclaimed republic Sergei Bagapsh at a press conference in Moscow. According to him, today 84 percent of Abkhazians have Russian citizenship. About 70 percent of pensioners receive Russian pensions. "This process is ongoing, it takes another six months to a year for the entire population of Abkhazia to become citizens of Russia," Bagapsh said. He also noted that "Abkhazia's movement to associate membership with Russia continues." "Such consultations are underway," the president added. At present, Bagapsh added, Abkhazia continues to synchronize its legislation with that of Russia. The Abkhaz leader emphasized that Russia is the main trade partner, the main investor of the republic. "All our projects are mutually beneficial. We have reached the stage that we can offer something," Bagapsh noted. He also said that Sukhumi offered Moscow favorable construction projects in Pitsunda. "Moscow is interested in investments in Abkhazia," the president said. - "But we gave up the project of the recreation center 'Ukraine'. We have a good option in the Pitsunda area on the seashore." As for the prospects of peaceful dialog with Georgia, Bagapsh believes that Sukhumi and Tbilisi can reach a consensus and sign a security agreement. "The positions of the parties today remain promising, and it is possible to reach a consensus in this regard, that is, a security treaty between Abkhazia and Georgia can be signed," Bagapsh said. "We are for there to be logic in actions. We are for peaceful dialog to continue," - added the President of Abkhazia.

In honor of the 50th anniversary of Playboy magazine in the American Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) will open an art exhibition dedicated to the symbol of the publication - the famous hare. This is reported by The Independent. The event will be hosted by the Pittsburgh Museum of Andy Warhol, and one of the central exhibits will be Warhol's work "Playboy Bunny" (1985). The exhibition is titled Playboy Redux: Contemporary Artists Interpret the Iconic Playboy Bunny. In addition to Warhol, it will feature paintings, drawings, sculptures and video installations that 20 artists created at the request of the magazine for its anniversary. The exhibition will run from March 27 through June 19. Its opening will be held in the style of traditional Playboy parties.

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko will not sign the amendments to the law on the state budget for 2007 adopted by the Verkhovna Rada on May 4, which provide for an increase in salaries and pensions starting from June 1, 2007. Larisa Mudrak, head of the information service of the head of state's secretariat, said this, according to the Segodnya newspaper. "The president's position remains unchanged: the president will not sign this law because he considers the Verkhovna Rada illegitimate," Mudrak emphasized. Earlier, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych urged Yushchenko to sign the laws that the Verkhovna Rada passed, including the budget amendments. The deadline given to the president to sign them expires on May 19. However, the parliamentary coalition is not embarrassed by the president's position - representatives of the majority are confident that the signature of the Rada speaker will be enough for the amendments to enter into force. Moreover, the president cannot veto the law, as then he automatically recognizes the Rada as legitimate. "Everything, from the first day all payments will begin. We are not even worried about it. The government will fulfill its social obligations," - this is how the head of the budget committee of the parliament "regionalist" Volodymyr Makeyenko commented on the situation. Thus, from June 1, the average salary of a doctor in Ukraine will increase from the current 600-720 hryvnia (120-140 dollars) to 700-870 hryvnia, and a teacher - from 550-680 hryvnia to 660-800 hryvnia, depending on their qualifications. At the same time, the average pension will increase from 508 to 588 hryvnyas (about 117 dollars).

By an order dated January 10, the Russian government banned the use of the so-called "domestic tolling" - a preferential regime that exempted purchases of Russian raw materials from VAT, making them equal to purchases of foreign raw materials. Now, when carrying out tolling operations, enterprises will have to transfer customs duty and VAT to a special deposit. VAT will be refunded to the exporter when the enterprise carries out export operations with finished products. At the same time, the government decided to temporarily - from January 1 to January 30 - not to apply the export duty rate on unprocessed aluminum, and the State Customs Committee and the Ministry of Economy were instructed to prepare proposals to limit the use of tolling mode of processing of Russian and foreign alumina within a month. As "Interfax" was informed in the partnership "Aluminum", representing the interests of aluminum enterprises, Russian aluminum smelters to start export operations under the new customs regime must simultaneously transfer to the state accounts 90 million dollars for the payment of VAT and export duty, and the abolition of the five percent export duty will not be able to compensate the enterprises for losses from the diversion of these funds from the turnover. In addition, according to Aluminum experts, the abolition of domestic tolling will lead to higher prices for Russian alumina, which will make it uncompetitive. The Ministry of Economy told Interfax that the methods of limiting tolling have not yet been determined. According to experts, it could be either the introduction of quotas for the right to use tolling privileges or the introduction of a minimum price for tolling aluminum processing.

As a result of the shooting, opened on Friday, December 21, near a rural road in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania, four people were killed. As reported by the Associated Press with reference to the prosecutor's office, the dead are one woman and three men, including the shooter. In addition, various injuries received three patrolmen. The crime was committed a few kilometers from the settlement of Frankstown. The identities of the deceased have not yet been established. As for the injured patrolmen, one of them came under fire, but escaped serious injury because he was wearing body armor, the second was injured by glass shards, and the third was involved in an accident with the shooter. No other details of the incident have been released.

At the 103rd kilometer of the Moscow-Volokolamsk road, a car with detainees was involved in an accident, it collided with a passenger car. As reported on Monday, August 27, "Interfax" with reference to the press service of the Main Department of the Interior Ministry in the Moscow region, 10 people were injured as a result. Among the hospitalized were the drivers of the autozak and "VAZ-21083", with which it collided, two policemen and six arrested. All of them were taken to the Central Regional Hospital of Volokolamsk. RIA Novosti specifies that behind the wheel of the "Zhigulya" was a 72-year-old Moscow pensioner. The accident occurred at about 13:30 Moscow time. On the fact of the accident is being checked.

Honored coach of the USSR Tatyana Tarasova has spoken out about the criticism of former Zenit St. Petersburg footballer Konstantin Zyryanov towards figure skating. Her words are quoted by the National News Service. "Who is this guy? What does he matter? Said and said. I will not answer him. I don't participate in this nightmare debate - who is better, who is worse. Who asked him in the first place? Does he have any influence on anything? Get the hell out of here. Everyone!" - Tarasova stated. Zyryanov called figure skating a hellish sport. According to the ex-footballer, female athletes already have to retire from the age of 17. Prior to him, State Duma deputy Irina Rodnina and Olympic synchronized swimming champion Svetlana Romashina were against the participation of young figure skaters in adult competitions. Zyryanov is a two-time Russian champion with Zenit. He also won the UEFA Cup. As a member of the Russian national team Zyryanov won bronze at the European Championship in 2008. He is currently coaching the youth squad of the Blue and White Blues.

Small business entities of the Russian Federation will be able to use the new simplified taxation system from January 1, 2003, reports AK&M. The corresponding provisions are contained in the federal law "On Amendments and Additions to Part Two of the Tax Code of the Russian Federation and some other acts of legislation of the Russian Federation, as well as on the invalidation of certain acts of legislation of the Russian Federation on taxes and fees" approved by the Federation Council on July 10, 2002 (Chapter 26-2 "Simplified taxation system for small businesses" and Chapter 26-3 "Taxation system in the form of a single tax on imputed income for certain types of activities"). The law stipulates that organizations that have switched to the new taxation system or to the single tax on imputed income are exempted, in accordance with the adopted laws, from paying income tax, VAT, sales tax, property tax, and unified social tax (UST). Individual entrepreneurs are exempt from income tax, sales tax and personal property tax. At the same time, small enterprises and individual entrepreneurs will remain obliged to pay insurance contributions to the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation. The tax on imputed income will be paid by entrepreneurs whose activities, as a rule, relate to the sphere of services. The tax rate is supposed to be set at 15 percent, as at present. Regions will independently decide on the introduction of this taxation system on their territory. However, if the regional authorities decide to do so, entrepreneurs on the list of single tax payers on imputed income will be obliged to switch to this system. The enterprises that will not pay the single tax on imputed income, the volume of annual revenue of which does not exceed 15 million rubles, and the number of employees does not exceed 100 people, will be able to use the simplified taxation system in accordance with the adopted law. Entrepreneurs who have switched to this system of taxation can pay tax on income (6 percent) or on profit (15 percent). If there is no profit, the entrepreneur will be obliged to pay tax at the rate of 1 percent of revenue. Small businesses can deduct from the taxable base, including interest on loans, rent payments, travel expenses, advertising expenses. Organizations with branches and representative offices, banks, insurers, non-state pension funds, professional participants of the securities market, organizations with the value of depreciable property owned by them exceeding 100 million rubles, pawnshops, enterprises engaged in the production of excisable goods and minerals, gambling business, notaries engaged in private practice, PSA participants are not entitled to apply the simplified taxation system. The law will come into force on January 1, 2003. In addition, as RIA "Novosti" reports, members of the Federation Council voted for the addition of a new chapter "Transport Tax" to Part 2 of the Tax Code, as well as changes to the chapters "Excise Taxes", "Corporate Profit Tax". As stated by the Chairman of the Budget Committee of the Federation Council Evgeny Bushmin, "the main purpose of the amendments is to partially compensate for the loss of revenues in regional budgets due to the abolition of the law "On Road Taxes in the Russian Federation" from January 1, 2003. In order to compensate for the loss of revenues of regional budgets, the new law proposes to transfer excise taxes on oil products in the amount of 50 percent to the budgets of the subjects, in addition, to increase the share of corporate income tax credited to the budgets of the subjects from 14.5 to 16 percent with a simultaneous reduction in the share of this tax credited to the federal budget from 7.5 to 6 percent. The Tax Code is supplemented with a new chapter "Transport Tax", according to which, in replacement of the existing tax on owners of vehicles, a tax on cars, motorcycles and other vehicles except for motor boats with an engine up to 5 liters will be introduced.

Director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) James Comey gave a riddle to those who wanted to know the amount the agency paid to hackers who broke into the San Bernardino shooter's iPhone. According to an April 22 Reuters report, Comey did so during a speech at a security forum in London. According to him, the hackers received more money than he will earn in the remaining 7 years and 4 months before retirement. According to official data for January 2015, the annual salary of the FBI director is 183.3 thousand dollars. Thus, without taking into account bonuses and bonuses for the time that Comey has to spend in his post, he should earn another 1.34 million dollars. If the amount received by the hackers really exceeds the amount named by the director of the FBI, the fee is the most generous in the history of the agency, paid for the hacking of electronic devices. Previously, the record was considered a reward of $1 million, which was received by the American company Zerodium for providing access to information on cell phones. The FBI paid hackers to help break into the San Bernardino terrorist's iPhone on April 13. The hackers discovered at least one previously unknown hole in the smartphone's software. James Comey said that the solution found is applicable only to the iPhone 5C running the iOS 9 operating system. On February 17, Apple CEO Tim Cook explained in an open letter that the company would not cooperate with the FBI, because the scheme by which the structure offers to unlock a terrorist's phone, jeopardizes data privacy. Cook called it a loophole that could be used to unlock any iPhone. On December 2, 2015, a shooting opened by Syed Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik in a San Bernardino city conference room left 14 people dead. Another 21 people were injured. The attackers were killed in a shootout with law enforcement officers. An iPhone 5C belonging to the terrorist was in the possession of the FBI.

Bundesbank board member Thilo Sarracin, known for his harsh remarks against Arab and Turkish migrants, has written a book "Germany - self-liquidation, or how we put our country on the map" ("Deutschland schafft sich ab. Wie wir unser Land aufs Spiel setzen"), Bild reports. The book, published by DVA Publishing, will go on sale on August 30. In the book, Sarracin cites and concretizes with the use of statistical data his repeatedly voiced ideas about the disastrousness of demographic, social, migration and educational policies, for many years conducted by the German authorities. The general conclusion is that if the dynamics of the existing processes is maintained, the population of the FRG will not only shrink to a minimum, but will become qualitatively worse: more stupid, less cultural, and so on. Thus, the net birth rate (how many daughters there are for each woman) in Germany is currently 0.7. This means that the generation of grandchildren is half the size of the generation of grandfathers. Germany's annual birth rate has fallen from 1.3 million since the sixties to 650,000 in 2009. If this continues, in 90 years the birth rate will fall to 200-250 thousand a year. At the same time, only half of the newborns of this number will be descendants of Germans who lived in the mid-sixties of the XX century. Sarrazin notes that over the past 45 years to talk about the demographic crisis was considered indecent, and only when the generation of young rebels of the 60's grew old and worried about their pensions, little by little the situation changed and it became possible to talk about it. In Thilo Sarrazin's opinion, however, this was 40 years too late. In Germany, however, the difficulties continue to be glossed over under the guise of political correctness. Asserting obvious truths, such as that those who do not study will remain ignorant, or that those who overeat will become fat, as Sarrazin notes, is considered in Germany to be politically incorrect, tasteless and even immoral, or at least foolish, especially among those who have decided to pursue a career in politics. The dominance of politically correct discourse has led to people being absolved of responsibility for their actions altogether, shifting everything to circumstances. For example, ironically, if a child is overweight, it is not the parents' negligent parenting but the family's social status that is to blame. If third-generation Turkish migrants still cannot speak German correctly, it is certainly the fault of the environment, which is hostile to the integration of immigrants into society. At the same time, according to Sarrazin, it is Muslim migrants with their high birth rate who pose a threat to old Europe, including Germany, as they may simply replace the dwindling German population in the future. "Culturally and civilizationally, their value system and ideas about the structure of society are a step backwards..... I would not want the country in which my grandchildren or great-grandchildren will live to be mostly Muslim, where Turkish and Arabic would be spoken in the streets, where women would wear headscarves and the rhythm of life would be set by the call of the muezzin from the minaret," Spiegel quoted Sarracin as saying. Tilo Sarracin again emphasized the inadmissibility of immigrants sitting on benefits. According to him, among Arab and Turkish migrants, the percentage of those receiving Hartz-IV welfare benefits is almost four times higher than among Germans. The appearance of Sarrazin's book has caused irritation among his Social Democratic Party classmates, who had previously tried to expel the banker from the SPD for xenophobic remarks. On Aug. 25, SPD chairman Sigmar Gabriel hinted to Sarrazin that he should have quit on his own. "If you ask me why he is still a member of our party, I will tell you that I don't know myself," Gabriel noted.

Warner Bros. has given the go-ahead to shoot the comedy "Grudge Match" ("Grudge Match"), starring Sylvester Stallone and Robert De Niro. This is reported on the website Deadline. De Niro will play a boxer, retired, but agreed to take part in one more fight in the ring. The role of his opponent will be played by Stallone. Another character - a promoter who organized the match - will play a comedian Kevin Hart ("A little married", "Think Like a Man", the series "American Family"). Production of "The Revenant" will be taken by Peter Segal ("Anger Management," "50 First Kisses," "All or Nothing," "Tension"). Previously, both De Niro and Stallone have played boxers in dramatic films. De Niro played existing in reality, an athlete Jake Lamotta in Martin Scorsese's tape "Raging Bull" ("Raging Bull"). In March 1981, this work brought the actor "Oscar" (the film was also awarded the Academy Award for Best Editing). Stallone played the role of a boxer in the 1976 drama "Rocky" (the actor also acted as a screenwriter of the movie). The film was nominated for ten Oscars and won three of them (including a major nomination for Best Picture).

A charter flight of Azur Air airline with a significant delay departed from Ekaterinburg to the Vietnamese city of Nha Trang at 15:14 local time (13:14 Moscow time) on Thursday, October 27. This is evidenced by the data of the online board of the Koltsovo airport of departure. At the same time, the airliner was originally scheduled to depart for Vietnam on Tuesday, October 25, at 18:40 local time. Thus, the delay amounted to about two days. According to "Interfax", the incident occurred due to a technical malfunction of the aircraft, which was to carry 324 passengers. For the waiting period, travelers were accommodated in Ekaterinburg hotels. As a result, they were sent to Vietnam on a reserve Azur Air flight. In connection with the flight delay, Rosaviatsia intends to conduct an inspection. The agency suspects that the carrier was unable to provide passengers with another plane in time and thus fulfill its obligations to customers properly. Whether travelers will be compensated for the days of lost rest is unknown. In September, the departure of the Azur Air airliner from Tomsk to the Vietnamese city of Cam Ranh was delayed for 8.5 hours due to a technical malfunction.

Sergei Finagin has been detained in St. Petersburg. Law enforcement authorities consider him the leader of the "Kingisepp criminal group," which included former submariner Alexander Pumane, Fontanka.ru reports. According to the newspaper, Finagin, known in the criminal community by the nickname "Finn", was arrested on December 18 at nine o'clock in the morning on Frunze Street by officers of the Criminal Investigation Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia and the central office of the FSB. In recent months, Sergei Finagin had been using someone else's documents in the name of a resident of Stavropol. He posed as a pensioner of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to his 45-year-old cohabitant. A search was conducted in the St. Petersburg apartment where Sergey Finagin lived. At present, he was taken to Moscow and is in the Lefortovo detention center, where, as the publication notes, "urgent investigative actions" are being carried out with him. Recall that members of the "Kingisepp group" Valentin Bar-Biryukov, Marsel Garifullin, Yuri Zyablov, Alexander and Andrei Ivanov, Igor Uldanov and Sergei Khomutov are charged with contract killings. According to the investigation, all of them were members of a criminal group, which had been operating since late 1992. It included more than 20 people, mostly residents of the town of Kingisepp in the Leningrad region, Moscow and St. Petersburg. The only one who until recently managed to evade trial was the organizer and leader of the gang Finagin. Those under investigation are accused of the murders of five employees of commercial firms, which were committed between 1994 and 2002, and one attempted murder. The investigation believes that Pumane, who was detained in Moscow in September 2004 and died after interrogation in a Moscow police department, was also a member of the "Kingisepp group" and personally committed four contract murders. On November 29, one of the defendants Alexander Ivanov fully admitted his guilt, Valentin Bar-Biryukov and Marsel Garifullin partially admitted it.

The Ministry of Labor proposed to abolish early retirement pensions for workers of harmful industries from 2015. As reported by "Finmarket", this was announced by the deputy head of the department, Sergei Velmyaikin. According to him, while the Ministry is only beginning to develop a draft reform of early pensions. It is assumed that only those workers who can no longer continue to work at their jobs will receive compensation for harmful working conditions. We are talking about those who have received an occupational disease. In this case, they will be paid benefits in the Social Insurance Fund. In fact, it is a disability allowance. Velmyaikin explained that we are talking about those citizens who from 2015 will go to dangerous and harmful workplaces. Those who by this date will already have more than half of the working experience in harmful production, pension rights will be preserved in full. Employers will also be obliged to create a corporate pension system for those who by 2015 will have already worked at harmful workplaces but will not have accumulated half of their seniority. Novye Izvestia reports that Velmyaikin explained that the existing system of early pensions does not motivate employers to invest in modernizing production facilities and eliminating workplaces with harmful working conditions. Improvement of labor conditions does not reduce the costs of enterprises. Thus, by paying early pensions, the state simply subsidizes harmful industries. There are 40 million pensioners in Russia. 10.9 million of them receive early pensions, while six million have early pension rights because of their work in harmful industries. The number of former hazardous production workers receiving early pensions due to disability and occupational injuries is 155 thousand. As part of the ongoing pension reform in Russia, the authorities have already increased insurance premiums for workers in hazardous industries. In this way, officials believe, it will be possible to increase the Pension Fund's revenues and force companies to improve working conditions.

Metropolitan investigators believe that serial killers of pensioners are operating in the southwest of the city. According to RIA Novosti, during two days, May 12 and 13, the victims of the criminals were women born in 1918 and 1929 in the house 35, building 2, on Kakhovka Street and a woman born in 1926 in the house 36, building 1, on Kherson Street. Both houses are located in the same neighborhood. According to the official representative of the Investigative Department in Moscow, Sergei Marchenko, in all three cases there is a similar pattern of murder. The bodies of two of the victims were found bound in bathtubs filled with water, while another woman was found on a bed with signs of strangulation. About the alleged purpose of the murders investigators do not tell. Earlier it was reported that in the apartments of the murdered in Kakhovka were found traces of presence of strangers and many fingerprints that did not belong to the deceased. However, there is no information about the disappearance of any valuable things. Investigators do not exclude that the murder may be involved in the workers carrying out repairs in the house on Kakhovka, in connection with which the video camera of outdoor surveillance was turned off. In addition, it is noted that the apartments of the two victims were on the same landing and the doors to them were almost never locked. In connection with the series of murders, the police decided to take under guard lonely pensioners living in the southwest of Moscow. As a source in the law enforcement agencies told Interfax, it was decided to compile lists of such lonely pensioners and to instruct district police officers to identify persons who regularly visit them.

Naftohaz commercial director Yuriy Vitrienko has said that Ukraine had to buy European gas four times more expensive than from Gazprom. He wrote about this on Facebook. According to him, to make up for the difference in the cost of fuel should the Russian company. "We now have a legal opportunity to demand from "Gazprom" compensation for losses due to the disruption of gas supplies from their side. The difference between the price under the contract with Gazprom and the prices at which we are now buying gas in emergency mode should be compensated to us by Gazprom," Vitrienko said. He noted that gas in Europe was sold at a price from a thousand dollars per thousand cubic meters. On March 2, Gazprom announced the termination of contracts with Naftogaz. The decision was taken after the verdict of the Stockholm arbitration court in the proceedings between the two companies. "The arbitrators argued their decision on the sharp deterioration of the Ukrainian economy. We are categorically against Ukraine's economic problems being solved at our expense," said Alexei Miller, head of the Russian state-owned company, adding that in the current situation the Russian side considers the continuation of the contracts economically inexpedient and unprofitable. "Gazprom" and "Naftogaz" initiated proceedings back in 2014. As it became known on February 28, the Stockholm Arbitration Court ordered Gazprom to pay Naftogaz 4.6 billion dollars for under-delivery of contractually agreed volumes of gas for transit. Taking into account the previous arbitration ruling, under which Naftohaz was obliged to pay Gazprom two billion dollars for the supplies made, the Russian side owes Ukraine 2.56 billion dollars. Gazprom said that it did not agree with the court ruling and intended to defend its rights.

The Bank of Russia has decided to introduce a temporary moratorium on the recognition of negative revaluation on portfolios of securities of credit organizations and non-credit financial organizations, the regulator said in a statement. According to the regulator, such a measure will reduce the sensitivity of market participants to market risk. As explained Deputy General Director of the management company "Pallada" Alexander Baranov in conversation with "Lenta.ru", such a measure will allow financial organizations to avoid a sharp decline in the value of their capitals. "After the Central Bank's decision to raise the key rate from 10.5 to 17 percent per annum, with this decision alone, the capital of banks decreased by more than 500 billion rubles. This is a rough estimate from below based on the negative revaluation for banks only on the repo market with the Central Bank and the OFZ (federal loan bonds) market, which commercial banks will have to cover from their own capital," he said. The Central Bank made a similar decision in 2008, but then it affected only banks and did not affect the Russian Pension Fund and non-state pension funds.

The leader of the Radical Party of Ukraine, Oleh Lyashko, has sent British Queen Elizabeth II potatoes grown in Chernihiv Region. About it the politician reported on his page on Facebook. "Recently I learned that to the table of Her Majesty serve potatoes exclusively from Cyprus. And our Ukrainian, grown on glorious chernozems in ecologically clean areas, not containing chemicals, is not in demand," - wrote Lyashko. In this regard, the MP bought potatoes from one of the residents of the village of Bolotnitsa, Talalaevsky district of the region, 81-year-old Polina Pavlovna Bondarenko. The report said she had grown it herself to sell it, as she could not live on a pension of 890 hryvnias (3,400 rubles). "I send to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, potatoes grown by this woman to make sure that they are no worse than what is served to Her Majesty's table," Lyashko summarized. The parcel, as follows from the message, was accompanied by a certain letter. It is not specified what the message was about. There is also no information about exactly how many potatoes were sent to the monarch's family. This is not the first time Lyashko has used potatoes to draw attention to the problems of rural Ukrainians. In June this year, the politician used it to hold an action in defense of local producers in the center of Kiev. The MP unloaded half a ton of potatoes grown in Chernihiv region (Lyashko is a native of Chernihiv) in front of the Ukrainian government building. Lyashko brought another bucket of potatoes to the Verkhovna Rada. However, the set of products that the leader of Ukrainian radicals uses during his actions is not limited to potatoes. For example, the MP brought rotten pumpkins and chicken carcasses to the session hall, tried to force the head of the Russian Federal Service for Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Gennadiy Onishchenko, to try cheese produced in Ukraine, and last November Lyashko ate black soil on the parliamentary rostrum.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has recommended the Ukrainian authorities to take a number of measures to keep the state budget deficit at the planned level of 1.8 percent of GDP. In particular, the fund suggested raising the income tax rate on rich citizens, canceling a number of tax benefits and reducing budget expenditures. This was announced by the head of the IMF mission in Ukraine, Chris Jarvis, UNIAN reported. The IMF mission worked in the country from May 21 to 28. In addition, the IMF named among the conditions for the resumption of lending to Kiev an increase in domestic gas prices and flexibility of the exchange rate. "We recommend a significant increase in tariffs immediately and to conduct regular increases in the future," - quotes Jarvis Reuters. If Kiev's economic policy remains unchanged, the IMF predicts the country's budget deficit will rise to 6.5 percent of GDP. In 2010, Ukraine agreed with the IMF on a loan program worth more than $15 billion. Under the program, Kiev was granted only two tranches, and then the transfer of funds was suspended by the IMF due to the failure of the Ukrainian government to meet a number of conditions that the fund considers necessary. In particular, Ukraine refused to raise gas prices for households and failed to meet the deadlines for pension reform. The Ukrainian authorities asked the IMF for help in 2008, when the global economic crisis worsened. The Fund agreed to allocate 16.5 billion dollars to Kiev, of which Ukraine received almost all the funds. However, the aid program was later terminated due to the IMF's claims to the Ukrainian economic policy.

The Russian Ministry of Finance has proposed to oblige non-state pension funds to manage pension savings in the interests of insured persons rather than in the interests of their shareholders. This is reported by Rambler News Service. In particular, NPFs will have to compensate clients for lost profits at the expense of their own funds. Funds will be obliged to "ensure an economically justified level of profitability of pension savings or pension reserves", - stated in the text of the bill, prepared by the Department. In case the bill is adopted, the legislation on NPFs, in particular, will contain a provision that the management of pension savings of citizens "is organized by the fund reasonably and in good faith exclusively in the interests of the insured persons, with due care and diligence". The head of the National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) Konstantin Ugryumov, commenting on the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, said that the requirements of the financial department are not a tightening. "The main burden in the implementation of these amendments will fall on the risk management services of NPFs. In order to improve the efficiency of investments to maximize the pension savings of citizens, funds will be forced to strengthen risk control," he told "Lenta.ru". A similar proposal this year twice put forward this year Deputy Chairman of the Bank of Russia Vladimir Chistyukhin and Director of the Department of Collective Investment and Trust Management of the Central Bank Philip Gabunia. On March 10, 2016, the Russian government submitted to the State Duma a bill on NPF remuneration, which was proposed to be divided into a permanent and variable part. The document refers to the obligation of NPFs to manage pension savings exclusively in the interests of participants and invest savings in long-term investment projects. The bill was supposed to be included in the tentative program of legislative work of the lower house for March, but so far the initiative has not been considered by deputies.

The government has supported the extension of the maternity capital program in Russia for five years. Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets said on Monday, November 30, that the issue is currently under discussion, RIA Novosti reported. "We consider this measure to be the most important, very relevant, because the contribution of maternity capital and in increasing the birth rate, and in providing the starting welfare of a young family, it is difficult to overestimate, it is one of the most effective and efficient programs," Golodets explained. November 17, the head of the Federation Council Valentina Matvienko said that next year the amount of payments under the program will not change and will amount to 453 thousand 26 rubles. The program should end on December 31, 2016, but Golodets proposes to extend it for at least five years. In April 2015, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev also declared the effectiveness of the project and advocated its preservation. "We were predicted extinction, but we are growing. Here is the best proof of the correctness of this course. Maternity capital has really changed the demographic situation in the country," he noted. The maternity capital program was introduced in Russia in 2007. The payments are granted to families who have given birth to two or more children, as well as to citizens who have adopted more than one child. Maternity capital can be used to improve housing conditions of the family, pension provision of the mother, education of the child, housing equipment for disabled children, as well as mortgage repayment.

In the city of Zarechny, Penza region, 9-year-old schoolchildren set fire to an 88-year-old pensioner. This is reported on the website of the regional Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. "The elderly man was passing by the garbage site near the house on Constitution Street. At that moment, three unknown teenagers threw a burning rag in his direction. It hit the pensioner's jacket, his clothes caught fire. The minors fled from the scene," - stated in the message. The man was taken to a local hospital with thermal burns. As specified in the police, the identity of the schoolchildren has already been established. The children have not been registered in the juvenile affairs division.

Russia's Reserve Fund officially ceased to exist on February 1, 2018. Now, additional revenues from the sale of hydrocarbons will go to the National Welfare Fund (NWF). This is stipulated by amendments to the Budget Code adopted in July 2017. De facto, the Reserve Fund ceased to exist a month ago: in December, the Ministry of Finance spent the last trillion rubles of its resources, and the fund's account balances as of January 1 were zeroed out. The Reserve Fund and the National Wealth Fund were created in 2008 on the basis of the Stabilization Fund as a "safety cushion" in case oil prices fell. The Reserve Fund was supposed to protect the federal budget, while the NWF was supposed to balance the pension system. In the summer of 2017, the Ministry of Finance announced that the two structures would be merged. Now, additional oil and gas revenues will be channeled to the FNB, and it will also be used to finance the budget deficit in case of a drop in Russia's oil and gas revenues. As of January 1, 2018, the NWF account held 3.8 trillion rubles, which is 3.9 percent of the country's GDP.

The parents of the head of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic Igor Plotnitsky, who lived in Voronezh, died of mushroom poisoning. This is reported by RIA "Voronezh" with reference to their own sources. According to the agency, the pensioners were hospitalized with symptoms of poisoning a week ago, on the second weekend of September. Soon the spouses were transported to a Moscow hospital. However, despite the efforts of doctors, the pensioners died a few days later. The press service of the head of the LNR responded to a question about the death of his parents that they "do not comment on this matter" and advised to call the Ministry of Information of the republic, which is in the process of liquidation and therefore "no longer has the right to respond to inquiries". On the morning of August 6, Plotnitsky's car was blown up in Luhansk. The security services of the self-proclaimed republic believe that SBU saboteurs were involved in the attempt on Plotnitsky's life. Plotnitsky himself blamed the Ukrainian government and the US security services for the incident. In its turn, Kiev emphasized that the Ukrainian side was not involved in the assassination attempt.

The victims of Hurricane Isabel, moving along the east coast of the United States, were 15 people, reports the Associated Press. Most of them crashed in car accidents after failing to control themselves in difficult weather conditions. In North Carolina, a municipal employee died trying to repair electrical equipment. Fallen trees and poles damaged a number of high-voltage lines, leaving about 4.5 million people without power. A state of emergency has been declared in Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, New Jersey and Delaware. U.S. President George W. Bush has ordered federal aid to North Carolina and Virginia. The epicenter of the hurricane is moving from eastern Virginia to western Pennsylvania. Wind gusts are gradually weakening, no longer exceeding 22 meters per second, Reuters reports. At the same time, meteorologists warn that for some time on the east coast will remain difficult situation, mainly due to heavy precipitation. The Potomac River overflowed its banks and flooded streets in the old part of the city of Alexandria in Virginia, flooding is reported in some areas of North Carolina. The population was warned of the possibility of landslides. Meteorologists said Hurricane Isabel was not as strong as expected. According to preliminary forecasts, the damage should be no more than 1 billion dollars - four times less than previous estimates.

The Federal Antimonopoly Service of Russia has authorized the non-state pension fund Surgutneftegaz to acquire a 75.64 percent stake in UTair, one of the largest domestic carriers in Russia. This is reported by RIA Novosti. Earlier it was not officially disclosed who owns UTair shares. However, the newspaper "Kommersant" with reference to unofficial information wrote that the company may be controlled by "Surgutneftegaz". The ultimate owners of Surgutneftegaz, in turn, are also unknown. In April 2010, Kommersant wrote that UTair was up for sale, with Aeroflot and the Moscow government being among the bidders. UTair denied this information, but did not rule out that market participants may be interested in the company. UTair ranks fourth in Russia in terms of total transportation volume. At the same time, unlike many other major carriers, it specializes in domestic flights. In addition, UTair is among the world's largest helicopter operators. In addition to helicopters, it owns about one hundred airplanes. In October, it was reported that UTair was ready to buy Russian-made Sukhoi Superjet airplanes.

A Moscow pensioner shot his son several times with a traumatic weapon during a domestic conflict and committed suicide. About it on Friday, February 23, reported on the official website of the IC. Investigators said that the incident occurred in the capital's Veshnyaki district in one of the residential houses on Kosinskaya Street. According to preliminary data, a man born in 1941 shot his son born in 1966 several times, after which he committed suicide. The son of the deceased was taken to the hospital, he is provided with all necessary assistance. Investigators are interviewing neighbors and eyewitnesses, establishing all the circumstances of the incident.

The European Union's macro-financial assistance in the amount of 600 million euros will arrive on Ukraine's accounts next week. This was announced by Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko after a meeting with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, Interfax has reported. In addition, he said, the board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will hold a meeting on April 3, during which a decision will be made on granting Ukraine a tranche of one billion dollars. Earlier, the IMF board postponed consideration of the completion of the third review of Ukraine's extended financing program. The notice, which was sent out on March 18, stated that "the short postponement is necessary to assess recent developments and policy measures affecting the financial sector and the broader economic outlook." A source at the time called the postponement of discussions an unprecedented case. In early January, the IMF put forward a number of requirements for Ukraine, which the country will be able to fulfill in order to receive a new tranche. The conditions include raising the retirement age, privatization of enterprises, reducing the number of civil servants and budgetary employees and opening the land market. In April 2015, the EU approved a program of macrofinancial assistance to Ukraine worth 1.8 billion euros. It was agreed that there would be three tranches in total. The first two - in 2015, and the third - in 2016. However, in reality, only the first tranche was transferred, while the others were delayed due to the EU's disagreement with the law banning the export of roundwood.

In China, despite the ban, underground groups of supporters of urine therapy continue to operate. This is reported by Shanghaiist. According to the Chinese authorities, almost 750 organizations are still active in the country, which practice the use of urine and profit from their supporters. As the publication notes, the ban has not been able to stop the growing popularity of this method of treatment. Among the most notable is the Chinese Urine Therapy Association. Using the QQ mobile app, it was able to recruit four thousand members. In Hong Kong, it pretended to be a registered organization, but "Zhenmin Zhibao" denied this information. The Global Times, citing experts, explained the popularity of urine therapy among the Chinese. It has become widespread among the country's poor: they have no money for traditional methods of treatment, and many have tried them and been disappointed. Pensioners are often among the victims of fraudsters.

The Russian Ministry of Labor has come up with a proposal to place lonely elderly people in families. The Izvestia newspaper writes about it. The ministry recommended regional authorities to spread the practice, which operates in the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous District, throughout the country. There, lonely old people are assigned an assistant, who takes him into his family and helps him with daily chores, receiving an allowance of 10.3 thousand rubles, provided they live together. Over the seven years of the program, the region has managed to create 356 foster families for elderly citizens. According to the authorities, such a measure helps the elderly to solve the problems of loneliness, feelings of being unwanted and despair at their own helplessness. According to Rosstat, 25.4 percent of the total population in Russia are pensioners. In February, it was reported that the guardianship authorities did not allow a Moscow resident to adopt a second child because he refused to undergo a voluntary psychological examination. The man refused to take the test, as he had already undergone it before adopting his first child three years ago.

Former Zenit midfielder Konstantin Zyryanov called figure skating a nightmare sport. The interview with the player was published on the YouTube channel LOOKYANOV. Zyryanov complained that figure skaters end their careers by the age of 18. "Nobody needs him [the athlete]," the former Zenit player remarked. In his opinion, the same thing happens in rhythmic gymnastics. "Already at the age of 16 you have to retire, because the young ones are backing up, who are smaller, more slender and can achieve medals. Hell of a sport," Zyryanov summarized. On March 30, three-time Olympic champion Irina Rodnina spoke out against the participation of young figure skaters in adult competitions. In her opinion, coaches "kill" athletes, forcing them to perform quadruple jumps. She cited the example of Yulia Lipnitskaya, who became an Olympic champion at 15 and ended her career at 19. Zyryanov is a two-time Russian champion with Zenit. He also won the UEFA Cup. As a member of the Russian national team, Zyryanov won the bronze medal of the European Championship in 2008. He is currently coaching the youth squad of the St. Petersburg club.

The signing of the agreement on South Ossetia's union and integration with the Russian Federation, scheduled for March 11, has been postponed indefinitely. This became known to Nezavisimaya Gazeta. The document, according to informed sources, turned out to be unfinished. In addition, on March 12, the South Ossetian parliament will consider a vote of confidence in David Sanakoev, the head of the republic's Foreign Ministry, who independently initiated the publication of the draft agreement in the local media without consulting the republic's leadership. Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered to conclude the agreement on March 5. It became known on February 25 that the Russian government submitted for the President's signature the agreement on cooperation and integration between Russia and South Ossetia. The treaty is concluded for 25 years with the possibility to extend it for ten-year periods. It is the basis for the phased establishment of closer cooperation between the two sides in the social, economic and humanitarian spheres, as well as in matters of foreign policy, defense and security. The state sovereignty of South Ossetia is preserved. According to the agreement, Russia will take over the protection of the republic's borders, and unified customs control will be introduced. Also in South Ossetia pensions and average wages are raised to the level of the North Caucasus regions of Russia. On February 18, Russia and South Ossetia signed a treaty on the state border. On the same day, the South Ossetian Foreign Ministry said that there are no plans for the republic to join the Russian Federation. South Ossetia sought independence from Georgia back in the USSR. Because of this the South Ossetian war began in 1991. Formally the conflict has not stopped, active hostilities in 2004 and 2008 are considered periods of its aggravation. In 2008, the self-proclaimed republic was officially recognized by Russia.

Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov will fulfill his duties until the end of 2007, First Deputy Head of the Press Service of the Moscow Mayor and Government Mikhail Solomentsev told Interfax. "In connection with the materials that have recently appeared in various mass media about the law adopted by the Moscow City Duma on Moscow's public offices, defining duties, rights and guarantees to the city's top officials of category "A", in which the capital's mayor is trying to send "to retirement" early, I would like to declare that, as Yuri Luzhkov has repeatedly said, he will work until the end of 2007 - the deadline for the end of his term of office," Solomentsev emphasized. The Moscow City Duma adopted the draft law "On Public Positions of the City of Moscow" in its final reading on July 15. This document enshrines the rights and duties that apply to the city leaders at the level of the mayor and vice-mayor of Moscow, government ministers, prefects of administrative districts, chairman of the Moscow City Duma, his deputies, deputies of the Moscow City Council and a number of other persons. In total, the law affects 95 people. In particular, to the mayor of Moscow, who has ceased to exercise his powers, the law guarantees security, transportation, dacha and compulsory state insurance. In addition, a high-ranking civil servant of the capital has the right to count on timely receipt of monthly monetary remuneration, free sanatorium-resort vouchers, medical and transportation services, as well as payment of a lump-sum monetary incentive in the presence of a total length of service of 20 years in the amount of monthly monetary remuneration. The law also provides for a number of other guarantees.

Russia's Finance Ministry will ask MPs to authorize the use of 3 trillion rubles from the Reserve Fund in 2015. According to Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, quoted by the Prime news agency, this money should compensate for the dropout of 2.7 trillion rubles out of the planned revenues of 15 trillion rubles. The Minister called the dynamics of the reduction of budget revenues a "significant decline". The issue of the use of budget funds and the efficiency of their spending was considered on Friday, February 27 at the board of the Treasury. Russia's budget for 2015 and the planning period 2016-2017 was adopted by the State Duma in November 2014. For 2015, it envisioned revenues of 15 trillion 82.36 billion rubles, including oil and gas revenues of 344.26 billion rubles. The revenues were calculated based on the forecast oil price of 80 dollars per barrel. Now Brent oil is trading at $61 per barrel, while WTI oil - $49. In January, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said that the losses of the Russian budget in 2015 at an average annual oil price of $50 will amount to 3 trillion rubles. Total federal budget expenditures were planned at 15 trillion 513 billion rubles. The budget deficit was expected to be 430.7 billion rubles.

The losses of Fisher Investments investment fund have reached $2.7 billion in the last couple of weeks. This happened after its founder and CEO Ken Fisher was accused of sexist remarks. Last 234 million dollars withdrew investment bank Goldman Sachs, writes CNBC. As noted by market sources, the losses of Fisher Investments, which before the beginning of this story managed assets worth 112 billion dollars, could be much greater. At the moment, cooperation with the fund has stopped eight institutional partners, including six pension funds. The company refuses to comment on the situation, Fisher also refuses to meet with clients. The scandal began after Fisher spoke at a conference in San Francisco on October 8. There, he compared his principle of picking investments to picking women for sex. Fischer recalled genitalia in his speech and cited the example of financier Jeffrey Epstein, who committed suicide in prison after being accused of trafficking in women. He was then reminded of another episode from a 2018 speech at another conference. After the initial accusations, Fischer said he was misunderstood, and he himself had repeatedly made such remarks and no one objected. Later, the investor did apologize and admitted some of the expressions were unacceptable. Despite this, the organizers of both conferences removed him from the list of participants in the future.

A group of shareholders of the News Corp media empire, which is controlled by businessman Rupert Murdoch, has sued the company. According to the Associated Press, the lawsuit is related to the case of illegal wiretapping of Britons by journalists of the tabloid News of the World. The shareholders accuse News Corp of failures related to the management of the company. The group of shareholders suing is led by Amalgamated Bank. It is joined by municipal and union pension funds. Together, they own less than a percent of News Corp. stock. The USA Today notes that the lawsuit is part of a long-running legal battle between the shareholders and Rupert Murdoch. Back in the spring of 2011, they sued News Corp, accusing the media mogul of nepotism: his company acquired Shine Group, which was founded by Murdoch's daughter. While some investors are suing News Corp, others are actively selling off shares of the media empire. As calculated by the agency Bloobmerg, over the past four trading days, the capitalization of the concern decreased by seven billion dollars. Only on July 12 at the auction in Australia, News Corp shares fell in price by 4.6 percent, which is the minimum since November 2009. This is reported by Agence France-Presse. The scandal with News of the World broke a few months ago, when it became clear that journalists of the tabloid listened to the numbers of not only stars, but also ordinary Britons. In early July, Murdoch decided to close News of the World. However, the scandal with the tabloid led to the UK authorities postponing a decision on the possible sale of satellite TV operator BSkyB to Murdoch. By mid-July it became clear that the scandal may affect not only News of the World, but also other publications. For example, it was previously reported that The Sunday Times and The Sun, also part of the Murdoch empire, could have illegally obtained data on the family of former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown.

Two former employees of Sberbank, found guilty of fraud for 34 million rubles, were sentenced in Stavropol. This is reported on June 21 on the website of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation. The defendant Svetlana Derevyanko was sentenced to four and a half years in a penal colony and a fine of 250 thousand rubles. Her accomplice Nadezhda Gladunova was sentenced to three years and one month of suspended sentence and a fine of 140 thousand rubles. In addition, the court satisfied the civil claim of Sberbank for full compensation of damages (part of the amount of four million 300 thousand rubles has already been returned by the convicts). It was established that Derevyanko and Gladunova committed crimes from July 2004 to December 2011, when they held managerial positions in the pension sector of the department of accounting of client operations of the North Caucasus Bank of OJSC "Sberbank of Russia". They regularly changed the status of personal files of deceased pensioners from "archived" to "active". The bank employees then entered the details of their own accounts into the operational databases. After receiving the money, Derevyanko and Gladunova deleted the details and changed the status of the case back. According to open sources, Derevyanko invented the criminal scheme before 2004. At first she committed scams alone, but then Gladunova found out about her activities. Then Derevyanko was forced to take her on as a shareholder.

Russian Minister of Labor and Social Protection Maxim Topilin called incompetent the statement of the head of the Association of Non-State Pension Funds (ANPF) Sergei Belyakov about the reduction of the future pension of Russians under 1967 due to the freezing of pension savings. This was reported to RIA Novosti in the press service of the agency. "The head of the ANPF Sergei Belyakov once again demonstrates incompetence in pension issues," - said the Minister. The replacement rate of the old-age insurance pension in the last five years, according to him, keeps stable at a level close to 40 percent. In 2012, its value was 36.3 percent, in 2016 - 37 percent. In 2014-2016, all 22 percent of insurance premiums are used to finance and increase pensions for current pensioners and the formation of the employee's pension rights to an insurance pension. "Mr. Belyakov probably does not know that the maximum annual number of pension points in the formation of only the insurance pension is 10, and in the case of insurance and funded pensions - 6.25. Thus, in the first case, the pension will be one and a half times higher. This is elementary," Topilin pointed out. In addition, the Minister noted that the "moratorium" allowed to save for citizens 1.5 trillion rubles. "They went to the insurance pension. Who knows what would have happened to them if they had gone to the funded? Only in the last year we have witnessed a series of bankruptcies of NPFs," he emphasized. Earlier, Belyakov said that during the three years of freezing pension savings, the future pension of Russians under 1967 decreased by an average of 10.5 percent. According to the ANPF, the economy lost about 1.5 trillion rubles of long-term investments during this period. The pension savings of Russians were frozen in 2016 for the third time in a row. The federal budget is expected to receive an additional 344 billion rubles thanks to the moratorium on the formation of the funded part of the pension. Thus, starting from this year all Russians are by default included in the pay-as-you-go pension system, which provides that all contributions of working citizens are directed to current payments to pensioners.

Law enforcement officers in the capital have foiled an attempt by a 68-year-old pensioner to sell for 20 million dollars 25 kilograms of the natural mineral corundum, which she passed off as ruby, RIA Novosti reported, citing an unnamed source in the capital's law enforcement agencies. According to him, the woman was detained in one of the capital's banks in the center of Moscow on Saturday. Both the minerals and a fake gemological research certificate certifying that they were rubies were seized from her. (Ruby is a type of corundum, which has an admixture of chromium, because of which the mineral acquires a red color - Lenta.ru note) As noted by the agency, to buy "rubies" intended to one of the Moscow businessman. A criminal case has been opened against the detainee under Article 30 and Part 4, Article 159 of the Criminal Code (attempt to commit fraud on a large scale). The woman faces a penalty of imprisonment for up to ten years. According to the Interfax news agency, together with the Moscow pensioner, a visitor from Khanty-Mansiysk was also detained.

On Thursday, George W. Bush addressed a joint session of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives with a special speech on fighting terrorism, CNN reported. The president emphasized that his speech, addressed simultaneously to the entire American people and to the governments of other countries, "is not a message of war." At the same time, George W. Bush tried to give an official answer to the many questions that Americans had for the government, first of all, "who and why" committed the attack on New York and what measures will be taken by the United States government. The President made it clear that henceforth there can be no compromise position toward enemies. Americans must now consciously confront organized terrorism that seeks to subjugate the entire world. Other countries must also decide on their position: "You're either with us or you're with the terrorists," Bush announced. In particular, the Taliban must extradite the leaders of the Al-Qaeda group and open for inspection all terrorist training camps on the territory of Afghanistan. The US president added that the Taliban must "act immediately". "They will either extradite the terrorists or share their fate," he stated. Bush thanked the governments of countries that have given America support and asked foreign countries to provide the US with assistance for "police, intelligence and banking systems." On the other hand, the president called for racial and religious tolerance: "America's enemies are not Muslims or Arabs. Our enemy is the worldwide web of terrorism and those nations that support it." "We are using every means available to us - every diplomatic capability, intelligence capability, legislative apparatus; we are seeking to influence in every way we can with both financial and military expenditures to disrupt the global web of terrorism," Bush said.  He also said that military action would take place "over a long period of time" and would not resemble the U.S. Gulf War. In addition, Bush announced the creation of a new government agency, the "Office of Homeland Security." As its head, the President appoints Pennsylvania Governor Thomas Ridge, who will have the rank of Secretary of State and will report directly to the President. George W. Bush assured his people that the U.S. economy will remain stable: "The strike destroyed only the symbol of the American economy, but did not affect its foundations," he said. "Our country is called to face the danger and defend our freedom," U.S. President George W. Bush said in his report. "This is about a war between fear and freedom," he also said.

On July 2, the Bank of Russia banned the management company Interfin Capital from operations with pension funds transferred to the management of clients of non-state pension funds. The Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) also started inspections at Rossiyskiy Kredit Bank. Vedomosti sources see this as an attack on Anatoly Motylev's business. Financial market participants believe that the businessman, in addition to the bank, also owns Interfin Capital. However, Motylev's representative does not confirm this. Since management companies are not obliged to disclose beneficiaries, it is difficult to determine the exact final owner of the company. At the same time, according to a person close to the Central Bank's supervisory block, the DIA's inspection of Rossiyskiy Kredit is connected with the fact that the regulator suspects that the bank's assets and liabilities may not correspond to the declared size. DIA staff should find out if there is no hole in Roskred, knows from the regulators one of the financiers, then a decision on the financial rehabilitation of the bank can be made. "The offensive on the group Motylev is going on all fronts", - quotes the edition a source close to the regulator. Also, Interfin's counterparty and a financier who discussed the matter with Bank of Russia officials claim that Interfin Capital's ban on some transactions is part of the Central Bank's "general operation to limit the risks of the Motylev group." "The Central Bank has come in from all sides," a counterpart of Motylev's NPF is astonished. At the same time, the representative of the businessman deny information about the DIA inspection. The agency itself did not respond to the newspaper's request. At the end of the first quarter, assets under management of Interfin amounted to 61.6 billion rubles (17th place among management companies). Of these, pension savings amounted to 57 billion rubles, while the rest were accounted for by mutual funds. The company's key clients are the non-state pension fund Solntse. Life. Pensions" and "Sberfond Solnechny Bereg". These NPFs Motylev has recently officially recognized as his own, for two of them have more than 50 billion rubles of accumulated pensions from 1.1 million clients. Also among Interfin's clients there are other funds, which market participants consider controlled by him. These are Adekta-Pension, Solnechnoye Vremya, Protection of the Future and NPF Sberegatelny. Interfin holds its settlement accounts with Rossiyskiy Kredit.

The Russian Ministry of Energy has developed a formula for calculating fuel prices at filling stations. According to RBC Daily, citing unnamed sources, the formula, among other things, limits the maximum retail markup on gasoline. The department's proposals have been sent to the FAS and the Ministry of Economic Development. If the proposals are adopted, in 2012 the maximum markup per ton of fuel sold will be 4.5 thousand rubles, which equals 3.5 rubles per liter of AI-92 and 3.6 rubles per liter of diesel fuel. The Ministry of Energy believes that the formula should be included in contracts between oil depots and independent retail operators. The surcharge is also subject to an annual increase for inflation. A representative of the Ministry of Energy told the publication that the proposal was developed so that "Russian citizens would be able to purchase fuel without excessive markups." For example, in the Sakhalin region, Rosneft sells AI-92 gasoline at a price of about 28 rubles per liter, while independent operators who buy fuel in small wholesale, including from Rosneft, sell AI-92 at an average of 35.3 rubles per liter. The Ministry of Energy also proposes to impose penalties on gas station operators whose markup is higher than the above-mentioned. Currently, the retail premium at gas stations ranges from 3 to 6 rubles; during the "fuel crisis" in the spring of 2011, it approached zero, market participants told the newspaper. In April 2011, after officials demanded a reduction in fuel prices, the cost of gasoline at gas stations decreased by an average of one ruble. After that, there was a fuel shortage in the country, and prices started to rise again.

The government was forced to introduce prohibitive duties on the export of oil products - it is believed that fuel began to be sent abroad, as its sale on the domestic market became unprofitable. In January 2012, it became known that the government reached an agreement with oil companies to freeze fuel prices until March at the level of December. According to business publications, the oil companies will be compensated for their losses by reducing export duties. In early February, the media reported that the government may freeze wholesale fuel prices to prevent a fuel crisis. In September 2011, FAS submitted to the government a draft law "On Market Pricing of Oil and Petroleum Products in the Russian Federation". It prescribes a formula for calculating the price of petroleum products. According to the FAS proposals, the price of petroleum products should be linked to their price on the world market minus export duties and transportation costs, but including taxes.

In Moscow, two cancer patients committed suicide. According to the TV channel LifeNews, both cases occurred on Wednesday, September 9, in the south-west of the city. The body of a 75-year-old pensioner was found on a balcony on Golubinskaya Street. The former subway worker wrote in a suicide note that he suffered from severe pain. Six hours later, the body of a 77-year-old man was found in an apartment in Teply Stan. The wife of the deceased stated that her husband suffered from cancer, repeatedly complained of pain and contemplated suicide. In June, a pensioner suffering from cancer committed suicide in the north of Moscow. On May 29, a 36-year-old employee of "Ostankino" suffering from cancer committed suicide, on May 27 - 65-year-old nuclear scientist Alexei Kalagin. On May 6, Mikhail Kondratyev, dean of the Psychology Department of Moscow City Psychological and Pedagogical University, committed suicide in the Moscow suburbs. In July, a law facilitating access to narcotic drugs for seriously ill people, including those with cancer, came into force. The document provides for an increase in the validity of a prescription for potent painkillers from the current 5 to 15 days. In addition, relatives of patients were exempted from the need to return packages of used medicines to the pharmacy.

Architectural Digest, an international magazine about architecture and interior design, has published photos of the personal residence of President Barack Obama and his family in the White House, including images of the American leader's bedroom and the solarium located on the roof of the mansion. The magazine's website published, in particular, photos of the Treaty Room, the Yellow Oval Room, the west and central hall of the presidential suite, Obama's bedroom, the dining room, the Old Family Dining Room, the living room and the solarium on the roof of the White House. The residence was decorated for Obama by Los Angeles designer Michael Smith, whom he met in Chicago in 2008, just after the presidential election, writes Architectural Digest. The decorator had less than two months to complete the job, and to discover the interior preferences of the president and his family, Smith sent them a slew of design books. "They were pretty clear about their wishes. They like simple, elegant things," the publication quoted Smith as saying. In addition, while working on the presidential quarters, the designer consulted with former first lady Nancy Reagan and sister Jacqueline Kennedy - wife of the 35th President of the United States John F. Kennedy. The White House has been the official presidential residence since 1800, when it was completed. The only leader of the state who did not have the opportunity to live in the famous building on Pennsylvania Avenue was George Washington, who held the post of President of the United States from 1789 to 1797. Earlier it was reported that after being evicted from the White House in January 2017, Obama plans to rent a mansion in the Kalorama neighborhood in northwest Washington. The house with a total area of about 760 square meters belongs to Joe Lockhart, former press secretary of the former President of the country Bill Clinton, and his wife Giovanna Gray.

A law on temporary reduction of the basic salary of politicians, judges, public officials and employees has come into force in Lithuania, Interfax reports. From August 1 to December 31, 2009, the basic part of the salary for these categories will be 450 litas (5792 rubles) instead of the previous 475 litas. The corresponding law was adopted by the Lithuanian Seimas and signed by President Dalia Grybauskaite. The full salary of Lithuanian civil servants is calculated by multiplying the base part by job coefficients. The coefficients themselves, according to the adopted law, were also reduced.  According to the government's calculations, as a result, the salaries of the categories of state employees specified in the law should be reduced by 15-24.5 percent. The government resorted to such measures in the hope to reduce the budget deficit. Earlier, officials said that if salaries were not cut, pensions would have to be cut. By the way, this procedure has already been done in neighboring Latvia - pensions were reduced by 10 percent. In the first quarter of 2009, the GDP of the Baltic states fell by more than 10 percent compared to the same period in 2008, which resulted in a sharp increase in the budget deficit in each of the three countries.

American actress Susan Sarandon said that she would like to take up filming pornographic movies after retirement. About this on Tuesday, May 17, writes The Independent. According to the 69-year-old actress, today most adult films are too brutal, and female pleasure in the plot is almost no attention. That said, a female director can bring a lot of interesting sex scenes to a picture. "So I think when I stop acting, that's what I'm going to do," Sarandon added. The actress is currently in France for the 69th Cannes Film Festival. On May 15, she took part in a conference to discuss the problems of women in film. Susan Sarandon four times nominated for "Oscar" and won the award for best actress in the movie "Dead Man Walking" (1996). She is also known for the movies "Thelma and Louise", "Stepmother" and "The Witches of Eastwick". The actress is a pacifist and actively participated in actions against the war in Iraq. In addition, she is an environmentalist and defends the rights of sex minorities.

Matchmaker from the TV show "Let's Get Married" Roza Syabitova gave advice to Russians on how to survive on a small pension. As she told URA.RU, it is not worth waiting for support from the state. "It seems to me that it is our state to support, and not to expect something from the state, because we are the state," she said. As explained by the TV presenter, the size of her pension is only 14 thousand rubles. "Having such a small pension was not news to me. I've always lived by the principle "You should think about the pension from the moment you get your first paycheck"," she added. According to Syabitova, it is possible to ensure a decent level of income in retirement if you work hard all your life and invest in real estate or save money in the bank, "as they do in civilized countries. In addition, says the matchmaker, you can count on the support of children. "But for children to support their parents, they should not be burdened. Therefore, by old age I built myself a family nest, wrote several books, created a family business," she specified. Earlier in September, the publication "Teleprogram" published data on the size of pensions of Russian celebrities. It was reported that the largest pension is received by Soviet actress Svetlana Svetlichnaya - about 50 thousand rubles a month. In second and third place were singers Alla Pugacheva and Alyona Sviridova. Pugacheva receives 47 thousand rubles, in particular, for the title of People's Artist of the USSR. Sviridova has the title of Honored Artist of Russia and receives 41 thousand rubles.

The 15th Moscow International Book Fair opened in Moscow on Wednesday, Ekho Moskvy reports. The two pavilions of the fair present books by almost three thousand publishers from 82 countries. On Wednesday, the book fair is open for specialists, but already on Thursday the fair pavilions will be open for visitors. The fair will work from 12 to 18 hours, entrance is paid - the price of admission ticket is 30 rubles, for schoolchildren and pensioners - 15. Around the pavilions the organizers of the fair have deployed tent trade, there will sell books at publisher's prices. In addition, on a specially constructed stage will be held concerts of bards and performers of folk music. Moscow poets will also read their works there. The book fair will last until September 9.

The Public Chamber's Commission on Labor Relations and Pensions has prepared three amendments to the Labor Code, Gazeta (GZT.RU) reports. The purpose of the amendments is to simplify the process of resolving labor disputes. They will be presented at the Chamber's plenary session on November 5, and may be submitted to the State Duma in the near future. The Chamber proposes to legalize arbitration courts that specialize in resolving labor disputes. Such a court would be formed of representatives of trade unions, employers and authorities. In practice, labor arbitration now operates only in Moscow, and the Public Chamber believes that such courts should exist on a permanent basis at the federal, regional and territorial levels. The advantage of labor arbitration is that cases in it are heard within five days, decisions come into force on the day they are made, and they must be executed within three days, unless the verdict prescribes a different timeframe. This saves the parties from having to participate in protracted proceedings in traditional courts, and also results in most conflicts being resolved at the preliminary stage. For example, since 2002, only 18 out of 870 complaints in the Moscow Labor Arbitration Court have reached the court out of 870. The Public Chamber also proposes to grant trade unions the right to represent their members in court. Now trade unions can defend workers only by power of attorney, and in most cases complaints are filed either by individuals or groups, but not by trade union organizations. In addition, the Public Chamber commission proposes to allow not only primary trade union organizations, but also regional ones, as well as any citizens whom workers authorize to be their representatives, to represent workers in resolving disputes on the ground. In drafting the amendments, the commission took into account the opinions of representatives of major employer organizations, in particular the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Delovaya Rossiya association. One of the authors of the amendments is Oleg Netrebsky, deputy chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia (FNPR). Meanwhile, trade union organizations that are not members of the FNPR, took the Public Chamber's initiatives without optimism. Sergei Khramov, a representative of the Russian trade union association SOCPROF, said that the amendments, if adopted, would only continue the process of bureaucratization of trade unions.

The Russian teenager who stabbed his entire family to death in the village of Patrikeevo in the Ulyanovsk region was an excellent student and a participant in many Olympiads. This was reported in the regional Prosecutor's office, reports "Interfax". The agency also said that the boy took part in the contest "Umnitsy i Umniki". As indicated by Telegram-channel Hue, all friends characterized him as very friendly and cheerful. He allegedly "did not offend anyone" and was very fond of computer games. According to the Telegram channel Life Shot, the student is also described at school as extremely calm and balanced. It is noted that he was "the pride of the class" and has never been registered with the police. According to a family friend, the young man "never said a word too much." "Yes, and [mother] Marina never yelled at him, there were peaceful relations. The grandmother did not dote on her grandson, she only talked about Timur. And here is the gratitude," - said the interlocutor of the channel. It also became known that the teenager lived with his mother and her parents, the father, suffering from alcohol addiction, left them after the child went to school. The family lived in the same house, on benefits and pensions. Earlier on Sunday, the suicide note left by the teenager who killed the family was published. The 16-year-old wrote that he had decided to kill his relatives in order to "take them with him". On August 18, the bodies of a 66-year-old man, a 69-year-old woman and a 42-year-old woman, as well as two young children aged four, were found in a residential house in Patrikeevo in the Ulyanovsk region. Also 500 meters from the house where the murder took place, the body of a teenager was found near the tower of one of the cell phone companies. According to the preliminary version, the young man hacked his mother and two children, grandmother and grandfather with an axe and then committed suicide. A criminal case has been opened. The boy could kill his relatives in connection with long-lasting unpleasant relations or because of a mental disorder. The investigation intends to conduct a posthumous psychological and psychiatric examination.

According to German Gref, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, the 2003 budget is capable of providing "stable financing of state expenditures, absence of budget deficit and stable macroeconomic situation in the country," Interfax reports. However, German Gref believes that in order to ensure this, everyone will have to "seriously tighten their belts", as 2003 will be "a difficult year for the country, including because of the foreign debt". Meanwhile, a high-ranking source in the Russian Finance Ministry told RIA Novosti that the 2003 budget surplus is planned to be 1 percent of GDP. According to him, this is slightly less than the 1.65 percent of GDP planned for the current year. The draft budget includes a general level of increase in energy tariffs not exceeding 15 percent. According to the source, if the increase in tariffs is less, it will be a significant saving for budgetary enterprises and organizations. The source noted that the Ministry of Finance continues its policy of reducing the tax burden, in particular, the abolition of the 1 percent turnover tax. An agreement in principle on this issue with the State Duma has already been reached. In addition, the agency interlocutor said, next year it is also planned to increase the allowances of military personnel and persons equated to them by a total of Br94 billion, as well as military pensions by Br53 billion. For the first time, next year's budget will take into account the revenues and expenditures of the state reserve. This will improve control over these funds. The overall level of non-interest expenditures next year will amount to 12.8 percent of GDP, excluding the single social tax. In addition, the main task now is to make the shares of expenditures on various budget items more stable. At the same time, the Finance Ministry noted that at present "we are reaching the limit level of budget expenditures." Over the past two years, there has already been an increase in expenditures by 22 percent and in 2003-2004 a further increase by 2-3 percent is possible.

Unidentified people have beaten agitators of the UDAR party led by world boxing champion Vitaliy Klitschko in Kiev. Ukrayinska Pravda quoted the press service of the party's Kiev city headquarters as saying. The incident occurred the day before at the campaign tent "UDAR", which was installed on Verkhovinnaya street in Svyatoshinsky district of the Ukrainian capital. "A woman of retirement age and a twenty-year-old boy were attacked by a group of ten people with demands to stop campaigning and threats to destroy the tent. The attackers hit the pensioner on the head, which caused a concussion, and ragged her face, the boy's nose was broken," the party said in a statement. Further beating of activists was prevented by local residents, who intervened in the scuffle, called the police and ambulance. In turn, employees of Svyatoshynskyi district police department recorded the fact of beating and even managed to detain one of the participants of the attack. An investigation into the incident is underway. Last week, a similar incident took place in Bila Tserkva, where a candidate to the Verkhovna Rada from "UDAR" Roman Grigorishin was attacked. According to the party's press service, Hryhorishyn was attacked by "two young men of stocky build who were waiting for him near his house". The candidate, in particular, was "punched in the face, thrown to the ground and kicked". After that, Vitaliy Klitschko asked Ukrainian Prosecutor-General Viktor Pshonka to react to the facts of pressure on the UDAR party's candidates for parliament.

The Russian Foreign Ministry denied the information that Russian tourist Evgeny Kuznetsov was disconnected from life support equipment in a hospital in Hurghada because his treatment was not paid for. This is reported on the website of the foreign Ministry. "On November 11 at 10.00 Moscow time E.A.Kuznetsov's heart stopped, during 30 minutes resuscitation measures were carried out, after which at 10.45 Moscow time doctors stated the death of the Russian. Until then, all life support systems, including artificial lung ventilation, were fully utilized," the report says. The Foreign Ministry notes that the Russian was hospitalized on November 8 in a state of coma. On the night of November 9, he was operated on by doctors arriving from Moscow. Meanwhile, in Moscow, a suspect in causing a fatal injury to Kuznetsov was detained for 48 hours, Interfax reported citing a source in law enforcement agencies. The 36-year-old Moscow resident had no previous convictions, but was repeatedly brought to administrative responsibility for various offenses. On November 20, the Moscow Department of the Investigative Committee opened a criminal case over Kuznetsov's death. According to investigators, on November 8, there was a conflict between Russian tourists at a hotel in Hurghada, which escalated into a fight. As a result of the scuffle Kuznetsov was hospitalized in a serious condition in a local hospital. Both Egyptian and Russian doctors provided medical assistance to the man. The treatment of the Russian tourist was partially paid for by his relatives. The insurance company did not recognize the incident as an insured event because the victim was in a state of alcoholic intoxication and refused to reimburse the expenses.

Deputies of the Legislative Assembly of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug (YNAO) made changes to the regional law on maternity capital, relieving its recipients of the need to provide a large number of documents, the press service of the zaxa reports. "Now it is carried out through a multifunctional center. That is, all departments in the order of interdepartmental exchange will collect the necessary package of documents for people", - said the Chairman of the Committee on social policy and housing and communal services Elena Zlenko. Thus, recipients of matkapital "no longer need to run through offices", she added. In December 2016, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a law freezing the size of the payment in its current form - 453 thousand rubles - until 2020. The social program has existed since 2007. It applies to families who have given birth to or adopted two or more children. Maternity capital can be spent on improving the housing conditions of the family, pension provision for the mother, children's education, housing equipment for disabled children, and mortgage repayment.

A letter carrier who was carrying pensions to a nursing home was robbed in the Stavropol region. This was reported by the Interfax news agency on January 6, citing a source in law enforcement agencies. Two criminals attacked the letter carrier in the village of Inozemtsevo. They pushed the woman and took away her bag with 500 thousand rubles, intended for payment of pensions to several dozens of nursing home residents. According to the description of eyewitnesses it was possible to draw up sketches of the attackers. The search for them is underway. In 2007, it was reported that a nursing home for labor veterans located in Inozemtsevo was closed for 15 days for violating fire safety rules. This is the largest nursing home in Stavropol Krai. About 500 people live there.

Since March 28, when the website of The New York Times became paid, more than 100 thousand people have agreed to read the newspaper online for money. This is reported by Agence France-Presse with reference to the quarterly report of The New York Times. The net profit of The New York Times, which includes The New York Times, The Boston Globe, The International Herald Tribune and other publications, more than halved and amounted to 5.4 million dollars, according to the report of the publishing house. The company attributed such a low figure to the continuing downturn in the U.S. print media market. The Times Co's revenue totaled $566.5 million for the quarter, down 3.6 percent from the same quarter a year earlier. Under the terms of subscription to The New York Times website, readers can access only 20 articles a month for free, with the rest available only after registration. Many major newspapers are now discussing the possibility of switching to paid subscriptions, hoping to offset the decline in revenue in the paper press. In 2010, The Times decided to take a similar step. In November, the publishing house reported that 205,000 readers had paid for The Times and Sunday Times online. About half of them bought one-time access to the sites, rather than a monthly subscription.

Joe Satriani's lawsuit accusing British band Coldplay of plagiarism has been dismissed, NME reports. Judge Dean Pregerson (Dean Pregerson) at a hearing held in California on September 14, said that the parties agreed out of court and closed the case. The parties will only have to reimburse court costs.

 Rock guitarist Joe Satriani filed a lawsuit in federal court in Los Angeles in December 2008 claiming that Coldplay's song "Viva La Vida," which appeared on the Brit's latest album "Viva La Vida Or Death And All His Friends," was copied from his composition "If I Could Fly."

 Satriani, who filed the copyright infringement suit, said he intends to seek damages from Coldplay as well as a portion of the proceeds from sales of "Viva La Vida Or Death And All His Friends."

 Satriani's composition "If I Could Fly" was released on the album "Is There Love in Space?", which was released in 2004. As the publication emphasizes, Coldplay management has not yet given any comments on the suit of the 52-year-old rock musician.

 In addition to Satriani, the British were accused of plagiarism by members of the Brooklyn band Creaky Boards and English musician Yusuf Islam, formerly known by his stage name Cat Stevens.

An American retiree has confessed to stealing flowers from a park 54 years after his crime. A few days ago he returned hydrangeas to the park - it is noteworthy that they were grown from the root system of those flowers, which were stolen by the now elderly Kentucky resident, reports the Associated Press. According to 72-year-old Bill Teitliff himself, he stole hydrangeas from the park in 1958 because he had no money to buy a bouquet for Mother's Day. He admitted that the hydrangeas were so beautiful that he still remembers them with fondness. Teitliff gave the hydrangeas (they were in pots) to his mother, but all these 54 years suffered from remorse and finally decided to confess. The police did not charge the pensioner. In the park the flowers he brought were received with gratitude. The pensioner said that he felt much better now and was glad that he was finally free of guilt for stealing the hydrangeas.

During the current Republican primaries in the U.S. candidates raised and spent about half as much money as in the primary elections in 2008. The Washington Post publishes material about this. Comparative data is available as of January 31, 2012. In 2008, by the end of January, Republicans seeking their party's presidential nomination had raised $310 million and spent $278 million. In the current primary, only 146 million had been raised by the end of January and 133 million had been spent. For example, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, who was considered an outsider in the race in 2008, had raised $106.8 million by January 31 (this includes $42 million of his own money). By the end of January 2012, he had raised only $63.1 million (Romney did not use his own money). The gap is much smaller for Congressman Ron Paul (32.9 million in 2008 and 30.5 million in 2012). Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, who are now also vying for the Republican presidential nomination, did not participate in the 2008 campaign. By the end of January 2012, they had raised, respectively, 18.2 million and 6.7 million dollars. Experts explain this situation by the fact that the current candidates do not excite voters and, accordingly, receive fewer donations. In addition, the effects of the economic crisis have probably affected the amount of donations. There have been suggestions that the most powerful Republican politicians simply did not participate in the current campaign, believing that Barack Obama will still manage to be re-elected for a second term.

British architect Sir Norman Foster will design a tower for telecommunications company Comcast, Business Wire reports. Construction is estimated at $1.2 billion. The skyscraper in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, will be the tallest building in the United States outside of New York or Chicago - the 336-meter tower will have 60 floors. The building will house the Comcast Technology and Innovation Center; the skyscraper will be built near the company's headquarters. In addition, the glass and steel skyscraper will house the Four Seasons Hotel. According to Foster, the first floor, enclosed by glass, but open to access, will become the "city room" - the "internal area" will correlate with the open-air area of the skyscraper. An underground public transportation station will be integrated into the building. The building will begin construction in the summer of 2014 and will be completed in the fall of 2017. Comcast is the world's largest telecommunications company, if you count by revenue. In particular, it owns the NBC channel. Comcast is also the largest Internet provider and the third largest telephone company in the United States. 78-year-old Lord Norman Foster is one of the most famous architects in the world, winner of the Pritzker Prize. Foster was one of the first to focus on the sustainability of his buildings, and his London "cucumber" skyscraper is considered a manifesto of "biotech".

A resident of Chistopol, returning home from work, found her 52-year-old husband and 23-year-old son dead. This was reported to the newspaper "Chistopolskie Izvestiya" by a source in the law enforcement agencies. According to his information, the young man called his mother and complained about the poor health of the cat. She called back her spouse to clarify what's wrong with the animal. Her husband said "Hello", after which the conversation was interrupted. The woman thought that there were some problems with the connection and did not pay much attention to it, and coming home, found her husband, son and the cat on the floor and without signs of life. As noted, it happened in the evening of December 13. The cause of death, according to the version of law enforcement agencies, was carbon monoxide poisoning. In February in the north of Moscow, two men died of carbon monoxide poisoning in the cabin of the "Gazelle", parked near the house. A similar incident with three dead in a UAZ car occurred in May 2016 in the Chelyabinsk region. In September of the same year, because of a pigeon caught in the chimney of the water heater in Orel, two pensioners and their 24-year-old granddaughter died from carbon monoxide. All the windows in the house were closed, contrary to the requirements of gas workers.

In 2018, Belarus has increased coal exports five times, having supplied 854 thousand tons of this fuel to other countries, including Ukraine, according to the data of the National Statistical Committee (Belstat). At the same time, Belarus itself does not produce coal. According to official statistics, Minsk imported about 1.6 million tons of coal in 2018, most of which (1.2 million tons) was exported from Russia. Coal imports to Belarus in monetary terms averaged $65 per ton, while exports averaged $87.7 per ton. It was possible to increase exports fivefold mainly due to fuel supplies to Ukraine. Over the year, they grew from almost zero (0.6 thousand tons) to 588.5 thousand tons. Experts interviewed by RBC believe that re-exporting coal to Ukraine will help Belarus partially compensate for losses due to the tax maneuver in the oil industry in Russia. In the summer of 2018, Russia passed a law on the completion of the tax maneuver, which implies the gradual abolition of the export duty on oil and gas with a simultaneous increase in the mineral extraction tax (MET) by 2024. So far, Belarus has been buying Russian fuel at domestic market prices, which are formed on the basis of world prices minus transportation costs and export duty. The amount of potential losses of Belarus from Russia's actions is estimated differently - from 300 million to 10 billion dollars.

Russia will not be able to achieve a deficit-free budget either by 2015 or later if pension reform is not carried out. According to RIA Novosti, this was stated by Minister of Economic Development Elvira Nabiullina. Earlier, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin demanded from the government to make the budget deficit-free by 2015. According to Elvira Nabiullina, if the pension system is left unchanged, its deficit will be 3-4 percent of GDP. All the 2000s, except for the last few years, Russia's budget was prepared with a surplus. In 2011, it was planned that expenditures would exceed revenues, but due to high oil prices, the budget was able to gain additional profit and become deficit-free. A similar situation may happen in 2012: if at the beginning of the year it was assumed that the deficit would amount to 1.5 percent of GDP, by April the Ministry of Finance's forecast was reduced to 0.3 percent. Of the total budget expenditures, a significant part goes to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. This is the reason why the government has been discussing pension reform lately: it should reduce budget allocations to the fund. Among others, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Economic Development and the Pension Fund have presented their proposals on the reform. All three agencies believe that the retirement age in Russia should be gradually increased. At the same time, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has repeatedly promised that he has no plans to raise the retirement age in the near future. On April 23, Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov also spoke out against such a reform: he believes that it is not the retirement age that should be changed, but the "pension formula," that is, it should be possible to retire with a payment of 10, 20, or 30 percent of the pension amount - if a person has "earned" only this amount.

A 57-year-old nursing home resident who opened fire on his neighbors has been arrested in Detroit. Before police could apprehend the shooter, he killed two women and injured three others. The shooter was armed with a .22 caliber rifle and other firearms. According to CNN, the retiree's aggressive behavior was provoked by the nursing home administration, who tried to have a conversation with him about his manner of expression. Residents complained that the detainee was abusing profanity. One of the arrested man's sons told the TV station that his father, a former country singer and guitarist, was the victim of slander by several neighbors who tried to get rid of him.

The court of the Pryazhinsky district of Karelia has ruled to suspend the work of the nursing home in the village of Essoila due to the fact that fire safety rules are violated there. This is reported by RIA Novosti with reference to the press service of the Karelian department of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. The State Fire Supervision Service found that the nursing home is not equipped with a fire alarm system, and the electrical wiring of the building is made with violations. It also lacks a system of notification and evacuation control in case of fire. The nursing home will be closed for 80 days - during this time its administration must eliminate the identified violations. During this period, pensioners living in the house should be relocated to other institutions. In the near future, the State Fire Supervision Service of Karelia intends to send applications to the court to suspend the activities of several more institutions. It is reported that violations of safety rules in Karelian nursing homes were identified before January 31, when a fire in Komi killed 23 pensioners. After that, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev instructed the government, the Prosecutor General's Office and the deputies in the federal districts to check nursing homes and boarding schools for fire and other safety issues by March 6.

In the Czech Republic, an elderly man fell off his motorcycle on the tracks right in front of an approaching train, but he was rescued in time. The Daily Mail has drawn attention to the video of the incident. The incident took place in the town of Kostelec nad Orlici, Kralovegradec region, on April 21, but the footage from CCTV cameras has only now become available. The footage shows 85-year-old Jiří Dusz (Jiří Dusz) trying to ride his motorcycle over the railroad tracks when the warning signals were already lit. The man did not notice that the barrier was already down, crashed into it and fell on the tracks. Dalibor Vobornik, 32, noticed this and rushed to the pensioner's aid. Within seconds, he pulled the man and his motorcycle off the tracks. Moments later, the train stopped at the spot where Dus was lying. Passersby ran up to the men lying on the pavement, helped them up and pushed the motorcycle onto the road. According to the police, if Vobornik had not rushed to Dus's aid, the train would not have slowed down in time and would have crushed him.

Tallinn Mayor Edgar Savisaar has published an article in the newspaper Õhtuleht in which he proposes that public transportation be free of charge from 2013. In Savisaar's opinion, this would provide citizens with an equal right to freedom of movement, as well as improve the environmental situation in the city and reduce traffic jams. As an example, the mayor of Tallinn cites small cities in France, Belgium and the USA, where the idea of free public transport has been implemented for several years. From March 19 to 25 in Tallinn will be held a survey of citizens on the topic of free transportation, and if the residents of the Estonian capital will support the idea of the mayor, it will be implemented in 2013. Savisaar does not specify how the city authorities plan to compensate the money that is currently received from ticket sales to the budget. According to Õhtuleht, in 2012 the income from ticket sales is expected to amount to more than 20 million euros and cover one third of the expenses of the Tallinn Transport Department. The rest of the costs are covered by external financing and the city treasury. In 2013, Õhtuleht notes, Tallinn will hold local government elections.

German Greens leaders Renate Kuenast and Juergen Trittin officially announced the start of their election campaign on Monday, August 17, and set off on a minibus campaign trip across the country, according to RP-online. Before the Bundestag elections scheduled for September 27, the Green leaders intend to visit 173 localities and hold 450 meetings with voters. It is noted that the CO2 generated by the bus on the trip will be offset by contributions to the environmental association Atmosfair. Atmosfair provides special meters to find out how much CO2 was generated on a particular transport trip, after which the customer voluntarily makes a contribution to offset the pollution. The money goes to various environmental projects. According to Trittin, the campaign ride is "environmentally neutral." The main goal of the Greens is to prevent the formation of a black-and-yellow coalition in a future government: conservatives from the CDU/CSU and liberals from the FDP - the formation of which many observers predict. Party leaders hope the trip will help them secure the votes of another million voters in addition to those who voted for the party in the last European Parliament elections. "The Greens promise voters that if they enter government they will help create about one million new jobs, primarily through the development of sectors such as environmental protection, education, health care and care for the elderly.

About 30 representatives of the National Bolshevik Party (NBP) broke into the building of the Russian Ministry of Health and Social Development on Monday, Interfax news agency reported. According to ministry officials, the people who entered the building were "hooliganizing" and "handcuffed." The NBP members managed to seize several offices, after which they hung flags they had brought from the windows, began shouting anti-government slogans and throwing smoke bombs. Presumably, this is how they expressed their protest against the bill on replacing benefits with monetary compensation. According to RIA "Novosti", a few minutes later the violators were detained by riot police and taken to the police station. Earlier, about 600 (according to other reports - about 1000) supporters of the CPRF and a number of other public organizations on Teatralnaya Square in the center of Moscow began a protest against the bill being considered by the Duma. Hearings on it will be held in the State Duma on August 3 and 4. According to Interfax, the rally is attended mainly by pensioners, but many young people are present. Shortly after the rally began, activists of the "Red Youth Vanguard" movement started blowing up smoke bombs, throwing them toward the roadway. The violators are being dealt with by police officers, who are guarding the square and adjacent facilities in a reinforced regime. Later, members of the "Red Youth Vanguard" and the "Union of Communist Youth" movement went on hunger strike and set up tents on Teatralnaya Square.

"Aeroflot", which planned to allocate up to 1.8 billion rubles to "VIM-Avia", suspends financing. This was reported by RIA Novosti on Wednesday, October 4, citing a source in the airline. The decision was made due to the refusal of the head of Rosaviatsia Alexander Neradko to sign and reconcile payments, the source explained. The agency denied this information, saying that the issue of payments was discussed at the morning meeting of the headquarters and the money will be transferred after the experts finish reconciling the documents of financial statements. In turn, Aeroflot expressed hope that the issue would be resolved by the end of the day. "Despite the fact that the acts of reconciliation of payments have not yet been signed by Rosaviatsia, Aeroflot is in constant contact with the Minister of Transportation Maxim Sokolov, who is personally involved in resolving this situation." "Aeroflot is confident that the situation will be resolved by the end of the day," Aeroflot said on Wednesday. In turn, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich called the problem "technical", emphasizing that it does not affect the company's work, Rambler News Service reports. Earlier, Dvorkovich said that Aeroflot could allocate about 1.8 billion rubles to the problematic VIM-Avia. At the same time, the official did not rule out that a smaller amount may be required. It was also reported that the money should be transferred on the written order of Rosaviatsia. Aeroflot will be able to compensate its costs at the expense of mutual settlements with the industry. At the end of September, VIM-Avia informed that the company had no finances to continue its operations. The prosecutor's office started an inspection of the carrier, while the Investigative Committee opened a criminal case on the embezzlement of passenger funds by VIM-Avia employees. According to Rosaviatsia, VIM-Avia's total debt is about 7 billion rubles.

Five cadets of the Novosibirsk Higher Military Command School have been arrested as part of the investigation into the suicide of their fellow student Radmir Sagitov. As the Kommersant newspaper reported on Wednesday, March 26, Marat Bekoev, Avtandil Gigolaev, Dmitry Koroev, and Alyasu Pilia are suspected under Article 335 of the Criminal Code (non-regular relations), while Sergeant Nikolai Boltaev is suspected under Article 286 (abuse of authority). Cadet Sagitov committed suicide on March 5, 2008. On the evening of that day, the young man came to visit a pensioner whom his parents stayed with when they came to Novosibirsk to visit their son (Sagitov was from Bashkiria). The cadet locked himself in the bathroom and did not come out for a long time. The landlady called the police. When the door was broken open, the young man who had opened his veins was still alive. He died later of blood loss. The military investigation department of the Novosibirsk garrison opened a criminal case under Article 110 (leading to suicide). The investigation believes that Sagitov committed suicide after he could not stand the bullying by other cadets. As it turned out, he was particularly often bullied by the arrested. In particular, the investigation found that on the day of his suicide Sagitov was beaten twice by sergeant Boltaev. The newspaper notes that the suspects have not been charged with leading to suicide.

The host of the Kamchatka radio station "Radio SV" Rosina Budans was suspended after she called 74 percent of Russians primates on air. This is reported by Kamchatka-Inform, a recording of the broadcast is available on YouTube. The day after the Russian presidential election, Budans said that "the balaganza is over" and stability won, namely "a steadily sucking life in a country full of energy and other resources." "In a country where politicians build castles for themselves abroad, while pensioners die of hunger and cold, the disabled cannot go out on the street, and workers in socially important professions barely make ends meet - such stability has triumphed," the radio host concluded. "I've been getting the impression lately that I live in a country where 74 percent of citizens are primates. A special hello, by the way, to those who in our country, in Kamchatka, made fabulously beautiful throw-ins in the ballot boxes. How do you sleep at night, friends, stable?" - Budans asked. On March 20, she was suspended from the air. According to the radio host, this was preceded by "some calls from the government." "I very rarely talk about politics, only when I care a lot. I just said what I thought. And there followed some violent reaction, some calls from the government, suspension from the airwaves. Turning my words around, spinning new meanings around one phrase. All this is so in the spirit of our time and so ridiculous," Budans stated. Radio SV General Director Vitaly Kim confirmed the suspension until all circumstances are clarified. "This is an internal matter of the editorial office. There were no calls from the government," he explained. The election of the head of state was held on March 18. According to the results of processing 99.83 percent of ballots, Vladimir Putin won 76.6 percent of votes, Pavel Grudinin came second with 11.08 percent of votes, Vladimir Zhirinovsky came third (5.66 percent), and Ksenia Sobchak came fourth (1.67 percent). Grigory Yavlinsky received 1 percent of the vote, Boris Titov 0.7 percent, Sergei Baburin and Maxim Suraikin 0.6 percent each. In June 2017, Vladimir Solovyov, a presenter working for the state broadcaster, on the air of the Vesti FM station, called Russians who came out on Russia Day for a rally against corruption "eternal two percenters of shit," vile scumbags and majoritarian jerks who "ruined the holiday."

In the U.S. state of Pennsylvania sentenced a pedophile who was found guilty of sexually abusing at least 12 children. According to the Philadelphia Inquirer, 42-year-old John Jackey Worman (John Jackey Worman) was sentenced to 120 years in prison. The pedophile was apprehended in 2006. He was found more than a million photos and 11 thousand videos, which depicted Worman's abuse of children. It is noted that the youngest victim was only one and a half months old. Forensic psychiatric examination conducted Wormen showed that he suffers from a personality disorder. In addition, experts concluded that the pedophile was trying to simulate psychosis. In April 2009, Wormen's former friend and accomplice Dorothy Prawdzik was sentenced. She was found to have participated in the pedophile's abuse of her children as well as her nephews. Prawdzik was given 30 years. Another alleged accomplice of Worman is currently awaiting sentencing. Concetta Jackson, who worked as a nanny, is accused of helping the pedophile meet children using her position.

Passenger traffic of Russian airlines on domestic flights in July increased compared to July 2018. Such data was announced by the head of Rosaviatsia Alexander Neradko, according to the portal "The Future of Russia. National projects". "There is also a significant growth, in particular, for the past period of time in July compared to the same period of July last year about 20 percent growth of domestic flights is going on," he said and added that the President's instruction to increase regional flights bypassing Moscow is thus being fulfilled. In early July, Russia's Finance Ministry proposed a way to curb the rise in airfare prices at the expense of kerosene costs for airlines. For this purpose, the government will compensate carriers 75 percent of the difference between the cost of jet fuel on the export market and the fixed rate of 48,300 rubles per ton at an oil price of $70 per barrel from oil and gas budget revenues until the end of 2019. The increase in transportation is envisaged by the national project "Comprehensive Plan for Modernization and Expansion of Trunk Infrastructure"; it is scheduled to run until 2024.

Sponsors refused to allocate funds for the Seliger-2012 forum. The camp will be held only at the expense of budget funds. This statement was made by Alexei Volokhov, the director of the forum, on June 29 on the air of Kommersant-FM radio station. "In previous years, the costs helped us to compensate sponsors, our partners...This year we have partners, they do not give money, they give their products. It so happened that no one gave money," the organizer said. On the eve, June 28, the head of Rosmolodezh Sergei Belokonev said that holding "Seliger" this year will cost 280 million rubles. In 2011, about two hundred million was allocated from the budget. According to Alexei Volokhov, the difference was compensated by sponsors. As the Izvestia newspaper wrote, in 2012, for the first time an outsourcing company was engaged in the search for sponsors. It follows from Volokhov's statement that she failed to agree with any partner on the allocation of money for the camp. Sergei Belokonev had earlier talked about his intention to spend at least half a billion rubles on Seliger-2012, three hundred million of which was planned to be received from sponsors. In 2011, a number of companies, including Mercedes-Benz and notebook manufacturer Moleskine, refused to sponsor the camp. Moreover, they made their statements about their refusal after the names of these brands were mentioned in the list of partners of the forum. "Seliger-2012" will be held from early July to early August in four shifts. According to Belokonev, the camp will be visited by about 60 thousand people. Earlier it was reported that there will be 17 thousand participants. This year's political shift is organized by blogger Dmitry Ternovsky, who intends to invite oppositionists to the forum.

The Presnensky Court of Moscow has rejected the claim of Vera Serov, granddaughter of the first head of the State Security Committee (KGB) Ivan Serov, and former State Duma deputy Alexander Khinshtein against the radio station Echo of Moscow. This is reported by RIA Novosti. The plaintiff demanded compensation from the radio station for insulting the honor and dignity of her grandfather. The claims are addressed to "Ekho Moskvy" and historian Boris Sokolov, who on the air of the program "Dilettante" on July 14 criticized the memoirs of the first head of the KGB "Notes from a suitcase" and claimed that they were forged by Hinshtein. During the broadcast, Sokolov said he considered the released memoirs and the information in them to be "nonsense" and the first head of the KGB to be an "executioner." The total amount of the lawsuit was 3.5 million rubles. According to Serova and Khinshtein, Sokolov's speech contained negative assessments of the plaintiffs and insults against them. The initiators of the proceedings demanded that the radio station remove the broadcast recording and the transcript from its website and compensate each of them one million rubles. From the historian himself Serova demanded to reimburse 500 thousand rubles, Khinshtein - one million rubles.

The Federal Migration Service has proposed to stop issuing passports for Russian citizens from January 1, 2016 in connection with the introduction of plastic identity cards. This is stated in the finalized federal law "On the main identity document of a citizen of the Russian Federation", which is posted on the portal of information disclosure on the preparation of normative acts. Earlier it was assumed that the transition period will last until 2025, recalls RIA Novosti. The pilot project on the introduction of ID cards is planned to start from July 1, 2015, not from the beginning of 2016. In what regions of Russia will be introduced cards first, it is not yet clear, their list should be determined by the government. The finalized law establishes that from January 1, 2019, all Russians, including those under the age of 14, will have to get identity cards. The photo and signature on children's ID cards will be placed at will. In addition to technical data and the surname, first name and patronymic of the citizen, the plastic ID card will contain his gender, date and place of birth, date of issue and validity of the document, insurance number of the individual personal account in the mandatory pension insurance system, taxpayer identification number and "machine-readable record". A plastic card with a validity period of 10 years can be replaced within six months. During this period it will be considered valid, but it will be impossible to receive state services electronically. Russian passports will be valid until the end of their validity period, the bill states.

The Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation has developed amendments to legislation which provide for the abolition of deferments from service for students studying at higher educational establishments on a fee-paying basis. Information on this initiative has been published on the portal for disclosure of information on the preparation of draft laws by federal authorities. It is assumed that the changes to the law "On Military Duty and Military Service" will come into force in April 2014. The Ministry of Defense explains the abolition of deferments for "paid" conscripts by the shortage of conscripts to staff the armed forces. According to the authors of the amendments, the new procedure will allow to give deferment from service to those students who "will be in demand in the economic complex of the country" - unlike the majority of current graduates. The Defense Ministry noted that over the past seven years, the number of citizens subject to initial registration for military service has decreased by 44 percent. At the same time, it is expected that until 2016 the deficit of conscripts will only grow, and even an increase in the number of contractors will not make it possible to compensate for it. Currently, about 750,000 people have deferments due to higher education, and if the reform proposed by the Defense Ministry is approved, as the Kommersant newspaper found out, about 300,000 of them may be called up for service. The Defense Ministry has given fifteen days - from September 26 to October 11, 2013 - for public discussion of the bill. Meanwhile, State Duma deputy Vyacheslav Nikonov told Kommersant that his colleagues are unlikely to approve the abolition of deferments. According to the parliamentarian, this idea was discussed in the Education Committee back in the summer and did not find support there.

During a recital in support of presidential contender Hillary Clinton, Elton John rebuked American voters for misogyny, AP reports. "I am struck by the misogynistic views of some Americans. Well, good for them. I love you, Hillary, and I will always be on your side," the musician said. Tickets for Elton John's concert at New York's Radio City Music Hall ranged from $125 to $2,300. $2,300 is the maximum amount allowed for a donation to a presidential candidate's fund from an individual. According to event organizers, the $125 and $250 tickets sold out as soon as they went on sale. In total, the concert brought in $2.5 million dollars for Hillary Clinton's foundation. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are competing to represent the Democratic Party in the upcoming presidential election. So far, the black senator is ahead of the former first lady, but the situation may change after the preliminary elections in the state of Pennsylvania, which are scheduled for April 22.

The Ministry of Finance expects to finalize the rate of mineral extraction tax (MET) on gas with Gazprom next week. This was stated by the head of the Ministry of Finance Anton Siluanov, reports "Interfax". The Minister noted that if the department's proposals to raise the rate are adopted, the additional revenues to the budget could amount to up to 100 billion rubles annually. In early February, Gazprom estimated its losses from the increase in mineral extraction tax on gas in 2012 in 64 billion rubles of profit. At the same time for 2012-2014 additional tax payments for the concern due to the increase in the gas severance tax are estimated at 440 billion rubles. It is not the first year that the Ministry of Finance has been trying to raise the gas severance tax rate for Gazprom. In 2006-2010 the tax rate remained unchanged despite the growth of world fuel prices. In 2011, the rate was increased by 61 percent, and in 2012 it doubled again. Gazprom, in turn, is trying to compensate for the growing tax burden by raising fuel prices. At the end of March, business media sources reported that the concern proposed to the government to carry out an additional price indexation of 26.3 percent from October 1, 2012 in addition to the 15 percent increase planned for mid-year. According to RIA Novosti, April 6, Gazprom representative Alexei Melnikov said that the monopoly still considers it necessary to increase domestic gas prices and is preparing a corresponding justification. Melnikov did not specify by how much the gas price should increase, according to the concern. The news agency recalls that in late March, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said that there would be no additional increase in Gazprom's tariffs on the domestic market. At the same time, Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller said that the concern is ready to work within the previously planned tariff framework.

Long queues of people wishing to buy SIM-cards of the cellular operator lined up at the offices of the Altyn Asyr company, a monopolist in Turkmenistan's cellular communications market. "Chronicle of Turkmenistan" reports that the authorities of Turkmenistan, which earlier deprived more than 2 million subscribers of the "subsidiary" of the Russian operator MTS, were forced to attract members of the country's internal troops to maintain order in the queues. On December 21, the Ministry of Communications of Turkmenistan suspended the license of BCTI (a subsidiary of MTS and the only competitor of Altyn Asyr), which was to expire only in 2012. So far, BCTI has not resumed operations. As a result, Altyn Asyr's SIM cards were in such high demand that the company was forced to limit their sale. Until mid-March, Altyn Asyr's SIM cards were issued only to pensioners, veterans and disabled people, but in early April it became known that the operator would soon start selling contracts. All those wishing to become clients of Altyn Asyr are now given tokens, which will be used to buy SIM cards in the future. The pandemonium at the operator's offices hinders the existing clients of Altyn Asyr, who are also trying to break through to the operator's sales points. MTS earlier estimated the damage from the termination of operations in Turkmenistan at about 600 million dollars. The company has also filed two lawsuits against the Turkmen Ministry of Communications - in the International Court of Arbitration at the International Chamber of Commerce and in the Turkmen arbitration. In addition, MTS has threatened the Turkmen government with filing a claim in World Bank arbitration. The Turkmen authorities, ignoring MTS's claims, announced in March that they plan to privatize Altyn Asyr. "Turkmenistan Chronicle" claims that MTS, which until now had been sending its employees in Turkmenistan on indefinite leave, began to make final payments to its staff and dismiss its employees. At the same time, the management of Altyn Asyr prohibited its local managers from hiring those who had previously worked for MTS.

Among the democratically elected heads of African countries again found no contenders for the world's largest award Mo Ibrahim, reports BBC News. This award is given to a leader who has raised the standard of living of the population of his country, and then voluntarily left office. Jury member Salim Ahmed Salim (Salim Ahmed Salim) explained that this year, none of the candidates met all the requirements. In September, however, the commission announced an additional one million dollar prize for Archbishop Desmond Tutu of Cape Town for "speaking truth to power". The jury recognized his fight for justice, freedom, democracy, and the government's responsibility to the people. In 2009 and 2010, the commission, as it did this time, found no worthy candidates for the Ibrahim Award. In 2011, Cape Verdean President Verona Pires received the award. He was awarded for fighting Portuguese colonialism, introducing a multi-party system and improving standards of living. The winner is paid a prize of five million dollars and after ten years provides him with a lifetime pension of 200 thousand dollars annually. The prize was only established in 2007. Since then, in addition to Verona Pires, it has been awarded to only two people: President Festus Mogae of Bostwana and Joaquin Chissano of Mozambique. Mo Ibrahim, a British businessman of Sudanese origin, created the award for African countries to ensure that their leaders do not hold on to power. He said many are afraid to give up power because it often involves losing their livelihoods.

Madame Tussauds wax museum has no plans to cast and exhibit a sculpture of British Prime Minister Gordon Brown in the near future, Sky News reports. As stated in the administration of the museum, Brown has not yet had a significant impact on world politics as Prime Minister. In addition, visitors would not be interested in a wax figure of the current head of the British government, at least for the moment. "We will wait for the elections because they are a sure-fire monitor of public opinion. We constantly monitor public sentiment, so if (Brown's) popularity increases, we will change our point of view," the museum spokesman explained. Meanwhile, a sculpture of Brown's predecessor Tony Blair is consistently popular in the exhibition of world politicians and is well-recognized, the spokesman also said. As shadow work and pensions minister Chris Grayling suggested when commenting on the reported reluctance to display Brown's wax figure, the museum "doesn't want to scare young visitors". "Either for that reason or because they agree with British voters - he won't be prime minister for long, so it's not worth spending money on him either," the politician added.

Russian investigators have put on the wanted list a suspect in the murders of 32 pensioners. This is reported on the website of the Investigative Committee Department for the Murmansk region. 19 crimes, which were combined into one case, were committed in Tatarstan, Udmurtia, Mari El, Perm Krai, Nizhny Novgorod, Sverdlovsk and Ivanovo regions. In addition, another 13 similar murders were recorded in the Volga, Urals and Central Federal Districts. All of them come from 2011 to 2012, the last one was registered in September 2012 in Ufa. "In the vast majority of cases, the victims are single elderly women from 80 to 90 years old, characterized as low-sociable, not abusing alcoholic beverages, able to take care of themselves," - said the investigators. As a rule, all the women who became victims of the criminal, lived in one- or two-room apartments in Khrushchevki, not higher than the third floor. All pensioners were strangled. The killer acted either with his hands or used improvised means (broom, pillow, apron, clothesline, iron wire). In some episodes, the perpetrator used foreign objects as leverage to tighten the noose around the neck. The suspect is believed to be between 20 and 35 years old, slim build, oriental in appearance.

A disabled pensioner, a resident of one of the settlements of the Pryazhinsky district of the Republic of Karelia, managed to fight back two robbers who broke into his house at night. About it on Monday, January 22, reports the press service of the Republican Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As noted in the message, two men broke into the house of the victim 81-year-old one-armed disabled man and began to beat the victim. One pensioner recognized - this man had already stolen money from him and was released from custody a few days ago. The landlord armed himself with a knife and stabbed one of the men in the chest. "The one fell, and his companion, paying no attention to the screams of the injured buddy, still continued to look for the old man's savings. The prey of the attackers were all the savings stored in the house - more than 40 thousand rubles. Raking even the change, the attacker heard the owner's request to leave it for bread", - reported the police. The guards of order on hot tracks detained one of the suspects, a wounded 34-year-old man. Soon the second robber, a previously convicted 28-year-old local resident, was also detained. During the arrest, he fought off the police with a knife. It also turned out that at the time of the attack on the disabled man, both were drunk. A criminal case under Part 2, Article 161 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Robbery") has been opened over the incident.

Russians will have a short working week after the celebration of Russia Day. This agency RIA Novosti was reminded in the Federal service for labor and employment. "After the celebration of Russia Day, the working week will be short - only three days: from June 13 to June 15," - reported in the agency. The previous working week lasted six days, followed by three consecutive days off - the day off from Saturday was moved to Monday, June 11. On May 24, the Russian Pension Fund told about five working citizens who celebrated the centennial. According to the institution, most of them live in Moscow and the Moscow region, one - in the Krasnodar region. Last November, the head of Rostrud Vsevolod Vukolov, in response to the idea of establishing a professional holiday for cryptocurrency specialists, advised Russians to spend more time at work. "It seems to me that we celebrate a lot," he noted.

Pensions and the subsistence minimum have more than halved over the past five years in Ukraine. This was written by the leader of the public movement Ukrainian Choice - People's Right, Viktor Medvedchuk, on the organization's website. He calculated that the minimum pension in 2013 was 3359 hryvnia (8947 rubles), and in 2018 - 1497 hryvnia (3541 rubles), which is 2.2 times less. The size of the subsistence minimum has fallen by the same amount: from 4162 hryvnia (Br9,847) to 1863 hryvnia (Br4,408). At the same time, the price of gas for households has increased almost 12 times (from UAH 725 to UAH 8,550 per thousand cubic meters). At the same time, next year the gas price is expected to rise sharply to 12-14 thousand hryvnias because of creditors' demands. "The minimum wage of 150 dollars (instead of the 1000 euros promised by the "Maidan leaders") is presented as one of the greatest "rewards" of Euro-reforming Ukraine. And with miserable salaries and pensions, Ukrainians have to pay European tariffs," the movement's leader is indignant. As a solution to the problem, Medvedchuk suggests "restoring production, boosting the economy, and creating new jobs". Instead, he said, the Kiev authorities are "working to split the country: the NATO membership course, the church split, the language issue." In mid-December last year, it was reported that gas prices for Ukraine had risen to a record high. On average, a thousand cubic meters of imported natural gas, including customs clearance, cost Ukraine 9472 hryvnyas, or 339 dollars.

In the town of Tunbridge Wells, located in the county of Kent in the southeast of England, a superhero who calls himself the Neighborhood Ninja has appeared, writes Metro. The 25-year-old young man said that he considers his mission to help pensioners, rescuing lost and stuck in trees cats, as well as confronting bullies. According to the ninja, dressed in a matching black costume, he was inspired to become a superhero by the experience of the so-called Neighborhood Watch, a voluntary organization to prevent crime in residential buildings. Neighborhood Ninja believes that the residents of Tunbridge Wells have forgotten about mutual aid and the need to take care of each other, and therefore he decided to independently deal with the issue of safety of citizens. How long the Neighborhood Ninja has been active in the territory of Tunbridge Wells and whether he has assistants is unknown. The fact that he patrols the streets and helps the residents of his hometown is evidenced by photos taken in different neighborhoods of Tunbridge Wells. According to local residents, pensioners are especially satisfied with the work of ninjas. Not so long ago, British newspapers reported on another superhero - in winter, a bank employee from Birmingham, calling himself Statesman. Wearing a special superhero costume in the evenings, he goes on duty on the streets of Birmingham and London.

Australian pension state fund Future Fund has decided to review part or all of its investments in securities of tobacco companies in the amount of 219 million local dollars (227.5 million U.S. dollars). This is reported by The Australian Financial Review with reference to the managing director of the fund Mark Burgess (Mark Burgess). The Future Fund, which manages A$80 billion, holds shares in companies such as Philip Morris, British American Tobacco and Lorillard. The fund has previously refused to review investments and the government has decided not to intervene. The fund is being forced by public health organizations to divest from investments in the tobacco industry. Burgess refused to admit that the decision to reconsider the investment was made under public pressure. The Australian government is actively promoting anti-smoking. In mid-August this year, the Supreme Court of the country recognized as constitutional the law prohibiting cigarette manufacturers from placing their brands on packages. According to the regulation, all tobacco must be sold in the same type of packs of dark green color with images of the consequences of smoking (for example, a photo of the smoker's lungs). Tobacco companies believe that the Australian law violates their intellectual property rights. Three of the four largest cigarette manufacturers - Philip Morris, British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco - have already sued the authorities of this country.

A terrorist sentenced to life imprisonment has escaped from a temporary detention center in the Dagestani town of Buynaksk. Republican law enforcement agencies told Interfax that the escape was made on Saturday at 4:30 am. Temerlan Aliyev, born in 1964, escaped. The Supreme Court of Dagestan sentenced him to life imprisonment for his participation in the explosion of houses on Parkhomenko Street in Makhachkala on September 4, 1998. As a result of this terrorist attack 19 people were killed. According to "Ekho Moskvy", the convict was brought to Buynaksk the day before. He was expected to testify in the case of embezzlement in the local department of the Russian Pension Fund. Before his arrest, Aliyev was the head of the department. According to one version, the terrorist managed to escape with the help of workers of the detention center, ITAR-TASS reports with reference to the Interior Ministry of Dagestan. Now in the pre-trial detention center a service inspection is being conducted. According to RIA "Novosti", senior lieutenant Sharip Tupaliyev, on duty in Buynaksk temporary isolation center, has already been detained on suspicion of aiding the escape. According to the duty officer of the Buynaksk police department, the detainee is now being interrogated. In connection with the escape, employees of neighboring detention centers and district internal affairs bodies have been raised on alert. Checkpoints have been set up on the roads. According to the Interior Ministry, this is the fifth escape from Dagestan prisons in the last six months.

A suspect in the robbery of Russian Academy of Sciences academician Alexander Krasovsky was detained on Monday in the Tula region, RIA "Novosti" reports with reference to the Main Department of Internal Affairs of Moscow. "According to the detainee's testimony, he wanted to steal a tunic with orders from Krasovsky," the police department said. The 25-year-old resident of Aleksin, a 1st-year student of the State Tax Academy, met the scientist at a May Day demonstration. According to the police officer, the student repeatedly visited Krasovsky and on one of his visits stole an order, which, however, was of no particular value. Then the young man came to the academician again. "Krasovsky understood the intentions of the "friend" and immediately began to call the police, the robber locked him in the bathroom, walked around the apartment, but the tunic with the orders did not find and stole a laptop", - told the police Department. The robber was detained at the moment when he tried to sell the computer. Recall, Academician Krasovsky died in his own apartment on May 31. According to investigators, leading the case: "During the robbery, the criminal locked him in the bathroom, Krasovsky tried to break down the door, slipped, hit his head on the tiles and died of the injury. Alexander Krasovsky, a laureate of the USSR State Prize, became the creator of the scientific school in the field of single-channel control systems and vector systems for measuring the coordinates of movement of aircraft, based on the work of which the wearable anti-aircraft missile systems were created. Among the specialists of this scientific school are a number of chief designers of defense industry enterprises. Krasovsky's developments on the theory of ergatic systems (man-machine) and simulator construction, on the methods of training and assessment of the degree of preparedness of aircraft control operators are used in astronautics. Before retiring, the scientist taught at the Zhukovsky Military Academy.

"Gazprom will not have enough gas to meet the growing demand in all consuming countries. Speaking at the annual meeting of the Russian Gas Society, Alexander Ryazanov, Deputy Chairman of the Gazprom Management Committee, said this, according to the Vremya Novostei newspaper. The top manager of the gas monopoly emphasized that Gazprom has no large fields in the traditional production region of Nadym-Purtazovsky district. Consequently, the company will not be able to compensate for the declining production at its large fields until 2012-2013, when production starts in Yamal. To fulfill all its commitments, Gazprom even intends to buy gas from independent producers such as Lukoil, TNK-BP, Novatek and others. In Ryazanov's opinion, supplies should be restricted primarily to those regions that pay non-market price, i.e. the domestic market. However, the statement of the Gazprom Management Board Chairman can also be perceived among several tough statements of the company's management regarding the gas situation in Europe. In particular, the head of the concern Alexey Miller said that if the EU restricts Gazprom's activities in the M&A market, it may consider diversifying exports and seriously increase supplies to the U.S. and China. At the same time, the company decided to save money on dividends to its shareholders. The most expensive Russian company is ready to pay them only 35.5 billion rubles. This is a quarter more than last year, but less than many Russian oil companies, Vedomosti reports, citing its sources in the company. The dividend payment plan has not yet been approved.

Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets' statement about 200 billion rubles of pension savings lost by Russians turned out to be hasty. This was reported by "Vedomosti" on Wednesday, March 23, citing the press secretary of the deputy head of the government. "As it turned out, about the actual disappearance of 200 billion rubles of pensions is not a question after all - the fact is that Olga Golodets considered these amounts lost, based on her own ideas about the investment process", - writes the edition. A spokesman for the Deputy Prime Minister explained that she meant the results of investment in 2014, not last year. According to him, the loss of 200 billion rubles corresponds to the average market yield for 2014 - about minus 7 percent per annum (such an estimate of yield, according to the spokesman for the Deputy Prime Minister, is given in the OECD report). Earlier on March 23, Golodets said that at the end of last year, Russians lost 200 billion rubles in the funded pension system. "And we have today not determined the source, who and when will reimburse this money," - said Deputy Prime Minister. According to her, the main flaw of the non-state pension system is that people "continue to be misled by non-transparent rules and the absence of direct contracts between a citizen and a non-state pension fund." The National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) called these words "another slander." "In fact, the insured have suffered even greater losses. This is due to irresponsible policy in the field of pension reform on the part of the social bloc. As a result of the freezing of pension savings in 2015, the accounts of the insured will not receive 243 billion rubles," - said the representative of the NAPF "Lenta.ru". He recalled that because of the freezing of pension savings, Russians lost almost a trillion rubles. For the first time the moratorium on the formation of the funded part of the pension was introduced in 2014. Then it was extended for 2015. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev promised to unfreeze contributions in 2016, but instead the moratorium was extended again: an anti-crisis fund was formed from 342 billion rubles in the budget. If savings are frozen again, 2017 will become the fourth year in a row when the funded pension will not be formed.

President Vladimir Putin has signed a law increasing the minimum amount of insurance for air passengers. The text of the law "On Amending the Air Code of the Russian Federation" has been published on the website of the Presidential Administration. According to the new rules, the amount of payments in case of death of a passenger flying on a domestic flight is two million rubles. Also relatives of the deceased should be compensated for funeral expenses - at least 25 thousand rubles. The money will be distributed among the relatives of the passenger in proportion to their number. Payments for lost luggage have also increased. For each kilogram of his things, which were put in the luggage, the passenger will be able to get 600 rubles, and for the damage of hand luggage - 11 thousand rubles. The amount of insurance payments to passengers on international flights is regulated by international treaties signed by the Russian Federation. The law on amendments to the Air Code was previously approved by the State Duma and the Federation Council.

The London headquarters of HSBC, Europe's largest bank, will be sold for 772.5 million pounds (about $1.3 billion) to South Korea's National Pension Fund (NPS), The Times reports. The deal is expected to close by the end of the year, but the bank will lease the building for about 18 more years for 46 million pounds annually.HSBC already sold its London headquarters at 8 Canada Square in 2007. Then the Spanish company Metrovacesa paid 1.1 billion pounds for it. However, the bank bought it back again a year later, paying 838 million pounds. The net proceeds from the two deals amounted to about 250 million pounds.As part of the current deal, NPS will take over 100 percent of Project Maple II B.V., The only asset of which is the lease agreement of the building on Canada Square for 998 years.Earlier HSBC reported on the deal to sell its New York headquarters on a similar scheme "sale&leaseback" (sale with the right of subsequent lease of the building), and also announced plans to sell the Paris office.In the crisis many large companies are trying to improve their financial position through the sale of real estate. For example, the largest U.S. insurance corporation AIG, suffering record losses, put up for sale an office complex in Tokyo and two office buildings in Manhattan, including the headquarters building. In May, it was reported that the insurer managed to negotiate the sale of the Tokyo office for 1.2 billion dollars. The buyer will be the Japanese insurance corporation Nippon Life.

Canadian company Research In Motion (RIM), which produces smartphones BlackBerry, as part of cost optimization will reduce the total number of jobs by about two thousand. This is stated in the official press release of RIM. As specified by AFP, layoffs will affect a tenth of RIM employees. The economic effect of the cuts is not reported. About the fact that RIM intends to lay off some staff, the company reported in June, when it published financial results for the first quarter of the 2011-2012 fiscal year (ended at the end of May). The company's profit fell 10 percent to $695 million. On July 25, RIM also announced a management reshuffle at the company. RIM's Chief Operating Officer Don Morrison, currently on sick leave, is set to retire after ten years with the firm. Morrison's duties will be taken over by Thorsten Heins and Jim Rowan.

President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko has scheduled a national referendum on the possibility of his participation in the 2006 presidential elections for October 17, reports RIA "Novosti. Lukashenko said this in a televised address to the citizens of the republic. The question: "Will you allow the first President of Belarus Alexander Grigorievich Lukashenko to participate as a candidate for the presidency of Belarus in the presidential election and accept the part of Article 81 of the Constitution in the following wording: the president is elected for five years directly by the people of Belarus on the basis of universal, free, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot?" was put to the vote. As explained by the Belarusian president, the refendum is necessary so that he could "consult with the people" before deciding on his participation in the next elections. Explaining his decision, the Belarusian leader said: "The oppositionists who are rushing to power will convince you that Lukashenko is treacherously seizing power in violation of the Constitution and wants to be president for the rest of his life." "I see well the people who have long been, to put it simply, "digging the ground" to come to power in 2006. I know where, from whom and under what promises they take money," added the president. According to Lukashenko, it's not about the presidential election, not about the extension of his powers, but about his right as a citizen to participate in the upcoming elections. Calling on all Belarusians to take part in the referendum, Lukashenko reminded that citizens will vote for the security of the country, for the life and health of their children and grandchildren. The Belarusian president promised that by the end of the year the average salary in Belarus will increase to almost $200, and in 2005 it will certainly reach $250. In addition, pensions and scholarships will grow, and young families will receive "tangible support. The Constitution of Belarus allows one person to hold the post of president for only two terms. Lukashenko has already been elected head of state twice, reminds the agency. The referendum will be held on the day of parliamentary elections.

The most likely and so far the only candidate for the post of the head of the Moscow traffic police is the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Southern District of the capital, Colonel Alexander Podolny. This is reported by "Interfax" with reference to its own source in law enforcement agencies. However, the interlocutor of the agency emphasized that there is no official decision on the appointment yet. At the same time, the source Life News claims that the relevant order will be signed by the end of August. A high-ranking source in the capital's police department told RIA Novosti that the management of the department has agreed on a candidate for the post of the new head of the traffic police, but did not specify the name of this person. "This is a Muscovite working in the internal affairs bodies. We are waiting for his appointment in the coming days," the source added. In addition, RIA Novosti, unlike Interfax, cites the name of the second possible candidate for the position - deputy head of the capital's traffic police Mikhail Portashnikov, who is now acting head of the Moscow State Automobile Inspectorate. According to Life News, in the case of appointment to this post Podolny, the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Southern District, most likely, will become his deputy Alexander Foss. Prior to his appointment as head of the Department of Internal Affairs Alexander Podolny worked as deputy head of the traffic police department of Moscow. It was reported that in this position he was engaged in the search for stolen cars. Even earlier he headed the criminal police in the Western District of Moscow. Podolny replaced Viktor Ageyev, who resigned at his own request in April 2009. The media linked his resignation to the crime of Denis Evsyukov, the head of the Tsaritsyno police department, which took place shortly thereafter. It was assumed that Ageyev's resignation had a negative impact on the psychological state of Yevsyukov, who on April 27, 2009 opened fire on passers-by in the street and visitors to a supermarket in the south of the capital. Sergei Kazantsev, who headed Moscow's traffic police until recently, wrote a resignation report in early August. It was reported that he was retiring upon reaching the age limit.

A group of scientists and doctors from Germany and the United States have discovered that accessing memory for information about an object activates neurons that store information about places associated with that object. Details with reference to the article of the researchers in the journal Science leads the University of Pennsylvania. Specialists from the universities of Drexel (USA), Pennsylvania and Freiburg observed patients with epilepsy, who were implanted in the brain thin electrodes. These electrodes allowed doctors to record the activity of individual cells and detect the onset of a seizure at an early stage. Through them, doctors affected the epilepsy center with electrical impulses: but, in addition, they also made it possible to conduct a series of unique experiments. All participants in the study played a specially designed computer game. It required first to explore a small town (moving freely through its streets), and then deliver parcels to different addresses, sequentially bypassing them one after another. At the first point of the route the player would receive a box with unknown contents and take it to the second point. There, both the delivered parcel and the address of the next location were revealed to him, along with a new box. After the experiment, the scientists asked the participants to remember what was in each of the boxes. In total, 13 parcels had to be delivered in the game and at the moment of listing the list of items, the researchers recorded the electrical activity of the players' brains. It was then compared with the activity when moving through virtual streets and it turned out that when remembering the contents of the parcel, the brain involves and those neurons that were active at the time of passing by the place of delivery or receipt of the object. The authors emphasize that the similarity of activity was observed not only for the pair of cases "remembering the object and its delivery", but also for the pair "remembering the object and passing by the place of its receipt when performing another task". This confirms the presence of geographic labels in memories, which presumably facilitate their retrieval from memory. In mnemonics, the applied art of memorizing large amounts of information, the method of places (memory palace in the English-language literature) is often used. In this method, the person memorizing a piece of information places mental signs (items on his or her report or shopping list) inside a particular building. The new work allows us to confirm the claim, often found in books on mnemonics, that our memory works particularly well with information about the coordinates of a particular place. Previous research into the neurobiology of memory has shown that there are neurons whose activity is tied to a particular location. The discovery of these cells formed the basis of the cognitive map theory, according to which a real landscape corresponds to its own set of neurons that recognize certain places.

On October 3, the anniversary of the October 1993 events, about 300 people took part in a demonstration in front of the Russian Government House. From the Park Kultury metro station, a column of mostly veterans and pensioners marched along the Garden Ring to the embankment of the Moskva River. The demonstrators carried red flags, but no slogans. None of the prominent political figures took part in the procession. Automobile traffic along the Garden Ring was partially suspended during the column. At noon about 300 people gathered near the White House on the alley leading from Krasnopresnenskaya metro station to the House of the Government of the Russian Federation. About 100 police officers monitored the observance of public order. According to ITAR-TASS with reference to the duty officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, there were no incidents during this event.

The Ministry of Economic Development admits a scenario in which the recession in the Russian economy will last for the next three years, and the weighted average dollar exchange rate will remain above 75 rubles until 2018. This is reported by "Vedomosti". The condition for this development of events is the preservation of oil prices in the range of 40 dollars per barrel. This option is described in the forecast as conservative. It assumes a drop in investment up to 2018. Real incomes of the population will decline until 2017. Inflation due to the weak ruble will amount to 8.8 percent in 2016 and 7 percent in 2017. Under the "base" variant, oil is expected to cost 55-60 dollars per barrel. The difference between budget revenues under this option and the "conservative" one will amount to about a trillion rubles a year. The reserve fund will completely disappear by 2017 and the budget will have a hole of 400 billion rubles that will not be covered. The publication notes that in this case it will be necessary either to finance spending by emission, which may lead to an even greater increase in the exchange rate, or to drastically reduce expenditures. It is possible that it will be necessary to raise the retirement age, although at first it will not have a significant effect. In the past few days, the dollar and euro have risen sharply against the ruble, particularly because of the collapse in oil prices. On August 26, the euro reached Br80, while the dollar rose again to Br70. Brent oil is trading around 44 dollars per barrel.

Voting for the election of five ICANN directors was completed Tuesday, according to the Associated Press. ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) is an organization that controls the distribution of domain names. More than 34 thousand users took part in the elections held with the help of the Internet. Voting took place in five regions - Europe, Asia and the Pacific, North America, Latin America and Africa. In this way, the company tried to compensate for the influence exerted on ICANN by the United States. Among the newly elected directors, two nominated themselves, without ICANN's support. Seven candidates were nominated from each of the five regions. To qualify, a nominee had to receive two percent of the user vote and the support of users from at least two countries. Because of the two percent barrier, there were difficulties with the preliminary stage of voting in Africa - two percent was only seven people there. Europe will be represented on ICANN's Board of Directors by Andy Muller-Magan from Germany. He is 28 years old and has worked in electronic networks for 16 of those years. Muller-Megan has been a member of the Chaos Computer Club since 1986 and a speaker for the club since 1990. Carl Auerbach has been elected from North America. He, like Andy Muller-Magan, is a self-nominated candidate. Carl Auerbach, who has been using the Internet since 1974, works as a researcher for Cisco. Latin America will be represented by Yvain Moura Campos of Brazil, head of Akwan Information Technologies. From Asia Pacific, Masanobu Kato of Japan, an employee of Fujitsu, will join the Board of Directors. Africa will be represented by Nii Quaynor of Ghana, an employee of Network Computer Systems and administrator of Ghana's national domain .gh. All five newly elected directors will be formally inducted into the board on November 16.

In Omsk, a 63-year-old woman, who did not change her Soviet documents for Russian ones in time, and then was afraid to do it because of the threatened fine, received the first Russian citizen's document in her life. About it on Friday, February 1, reports the website of the regional Department of Internal Affairs. "Having promptly contacted the woman, the police sorted out the situation, explained to her the procedure and assisted her in providing a public service to replace an invalid passport", - reported in the police, noting that they learned about the situation from local journalists. The pensioner managed to pay the fine thanks to the interdepartmental action "Mercy" held in the region. The amount of the fine is three thousand rubles, which the woman for some reason could not find, clarifies RIA Novosti. At the same time, due to the lack of a valid document, the resident of Omsk could not issue a pension and other benefits. In December 2018, a similar story was reported, but the woman was not helped. A resident of Chita, who for 25 years did not dare to surrender her Soviet passport, was refused to receive a Russian passport. The 60-year-old woman decided to sort out the documents in order to issue a pension. Previously, she had not dealt with this issue, as it was not necessary. The woman filed an application to the prosecutor's office, and the proceedings are ongoing.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed laws on pension reform, which establish pension coefficients and a number of other innovations. This was reported by RIA Novosti on Sunday evening, December 29. As the agency learned, the amendments to the pension legislation will be published in the official Rossiyskaya Gazeta on December 30. According to the new laws, from 2015, pensions will be calculated with the help of points, which depend on the level of wages, length of service and age of retirement. The minimum length of service to receive an old-age labor pension by 2025 will reach 15 years, now it is five years. To accrue a pension, it is necessary to accumulate at least 30 points. The labor pension will be divided into two independent types - insurance and funded. Those born before 1967 will have only the insurance part of the pension, while those who are younger will be able to choose either only the insurance system or to form an additional funded pension through the NPF and management company, the agency explains. Recall that the new pension formula was heavily criticized by the Duma factions of LDPR and Just Russia. Nevertheless, on December 23, the bills "On funded pensions", "On insurance pensions" and on amending laws in connection with the adoption of the two previous documents were adopted by the State Duma. At that time, 244 MPs voted in favor, 146 MPs voted against.

Greek farmers began blocking roads with tractors and other equipment to protest against tax increases. This is reported by Athens News Agency (ANA). The first to take part in the action were farmers from the town of Veria, located in the province of Central Macedonia in northern Greece. "We are starting rallies, mobilizing supporters, as black days are coming for the farmers. We cannot cope with the tax burden and the rising costs of production, it is a matter of survival," said the president of the Farmers' Association, Thaxis Halkidis. The demonstrators intend to block roads and a number of local government buildings. The peak of the protests is expected to come on January 24, when farmers from most regions of the country will join the actions. On December 8 last year, a nationwide strike took place in Greece against the announced labor reform and austerity measures, the implementation of which is demanded from Athens by the European Union and the IMF. In the summer of 2015, Greece and the EU agreed on a program to exit the debt crisis. Athens will receive 86 billion euros over three years. In exchange for this money, an austerity regime must be introduced in the country, including reform of the tax and pension systems.

The St. Petersburg Department of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation has put Alexander Gitelson, the former owner of VEFK Bank, who is a defendant in two criminal cases, on the federal wanted list. This was reported by the newspaper "Kommersant" on October 15. As it became known to journalists, Gitelson disappeared from the field of vision of law enforcement agencies after he was about to be accused of a new crime - embezzlement of 1.8 billion rubles from the government of the Leningrad Region. The decision to declare the banker wanted was made on October 14 after searches were conducted in his house in the village of Malye Gorki and in his St. Petersburg apartment. Gitelson's lawyer Yevgeny Kotov did not specify his client's exact whereabouts in an interview with Kommersant. The lawyer said only that the banker might be in some medical facility. Meanwhile, Gitelson has signed a covenant not to leave the country and is obliged to reside at his place of registration. In 2008-2009 VEFK bank went bankrupt, and subsequently several bank executives were involved in criminal cases. Gitelson was arrested in 2009, but was released in spring 2010. The banker is suspected of issuing dubious loans, which resulted in 890 million rubles in losses to depositors. At first, the banker's actions were considered embezzlement, but then the case was reclassified as money laundering. Later, Gitelson was also accused of fraud - according to the investigation, he swindled 500 million rubles from State Duma deputy Adnan Muzykayev. In September 2010, it was announced that Gitelson was also suspected of embezzling 2.5 billion rubles. According to the investigation, in 2007 the banker received fake SWIFT messages that the Serbian bank VEFK Banja Luka had transferred 5 billion rubles to his accounts in St. Petersburg VEFK. Gitelson then took 2.5 billion rubles from the bank's vault. However, investigators believe that the plan was to partially compensate for this amount not with the Serbian transfer, but with 1.8 billion rubles stored in the accounts of the government of the Leningrad Region. According to Kommersant, former Inkasbank board chairwoman Tatyana Lebedeva told investigators about the 1.8 billion-ruble scam. She herself is accused of fraud and has entered into a pre-trial cooperation agreement with the investigators.

"Aeroflot" asked the state to compensate losses from the eruption of the Icelandic volcano for 40 million rubles. This is reported by "Interfax" with reference to the director of the Department of State Policy in the field of civil aviation of the Ministry of Transport Vladimir Tasun. According to the official, we are talking about losses caused by accommodation and meals for passengers of delayed flights, as well as the airline's expenses for their relocation. Only such losses will be compensated, not the carrier's lost profits from canceled flights. "'Aeroflot' has sent a calculation for direct losses in the amount of 40 million rubles. There is also a figure of 130 million rubles, which is not yet clear to us," Tasun added. Earlier, Aeroflot CEO Vitaly Saveliev said that the carrier's losses will amount to "millions of dollars," but the company does not intend to ask for help from the state. Transaero also submitted its calculations to the Ministry of Transport, but later refused to ask for compensation from the state. Transaero's losses Tasun did not announce. Earlier it was reported that the total losses of Transaero, which postponed 23 flights to London, amounted to 20 million rubles. According to Rosaviatsia, from April 17 to 23, about 2,000 flights of Russian companies were canceled due to the eruption of Eyjafjallajokull. The total amount of damage is not known. Head of Rosaviatsia Alexander Neradko said in late April that the issue of compensation will be decided after the carriers assess the extent of damage. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance did not receive any instructions to allocate funds for compensation to airlines at that time. In Europe, more than 100 thousand flights were canceled due to the eruption of Eyjafjallajokull, and losses exceeded 1.7 billion dollars.

French firm Devialet has created a 4,500-watt miniature speaker, Luxurylaunches reports. The spherical-shaped speaker combines both digital and analog amplifiers. The surface of the gadget is covered with Kevlar, which, according to the manufacturers, minimizes vibration. The device can handle a frequency range of 16 hertz to 25 kilohertz, which is comparable to the capabilities of full-fledged audio systems. Last October, the Danish manufacturer of audio and video equipment Bang & Olufsen in honor of the 90th anniversary of the company presented a luxury speaker. It is built with technology that allows sound to spread 360 degrees. The device can compensate for sound waves that are reflected from furniture or other objects in the room and transmit the panorama of the musical composition. The speaker is made of aluminum and weighs about 65 kilograms, the price - 82 thousand dollars.

The State Duma has decided to increase pensions and benefits to citizens affected by the Chernobyl accident. According to the RIA "Novosti" news agency, the version of the law "On Social Protection of Citizens Affected by Radiation as a Result of the Chernobyl NPP Catastrophe," taking into account the amendments of the Russian President to the first version of the document, was adopted at a meeting on November 15. With 226 votes necessary for approval of the document, 385 deputies voted in favor of the law. Recall that the first version of the amendments to the law on the protection of Chernobyl victims was adopted by the State Duma on September 20, 2002. As the daily newspaper Kommersant reported at the time, the law provided for a 50-100 percent increase in pensions and benefits. According to the new version of the law, according to RIA "Novosti", the amount of payments to non-working pensioners and disabled persons has been increased by 50-150 percent of the minimum amount of retirement pension or disability allowance. At the same time, the amount of specific payments depends on the time of a person's residence on the territory of the affected area. In addition, students and postgraduates of educational institutions located in the affected zone will receive increased scholarships, while the registered unemployed will be paid an additional allowance by law. According to the news agency, the new version of the law also offers a number of other social payments and compensations. The law has been sent for consideration by the Federation Council.

The owners of a private house in Pennsylvania, in which they filmed several scenes for the thriller "Silence of the Lambs", admitted that they can not sell it for six months, reports Wednesday, January 13, The Guardian. Its starting price was 300 thousand dollars, but then it had to be reduced to 250 thousand, and then five times more. As the publication notes, the ad for this house is the second most viewed on realtor.com, but for the most part, journalists, not potential buyers, are interested in it. "The fact that the house has become widely known does not guarantee that it can be sold quickly," commented expert Eric Gunther. He added that many people would like to just look at the house, but not buy it. Three-story mansion in the Victorian style was built in the XIX century. Scott and Barbara Lloyd have owned it since 1976. After a sharp reduction in price, they noticed more interest from Internet users, but about the purchase of the speech is not yet. Its interiors were used to film episodes with the homicidal maniac Buffalo Bill, played in The Silence of the Lambs by Ted Levine. In the story, he kidnaps the daughter of a U.S. Senator and keeps her in the basement of his residence. The house's foyer and dining room were used for the movie, but there is no basement in the movie - that part of the movie was filmed elsewhere. The Silence of the Lambs, a 1991 American thriller directed by Jonathan Demme, is based on Thomas Harris's Hannibal Lecter novel of the same name. The main character is a psychotherapist convicted of cannibalism (Anthony Hopkins) and counseling FBI agent Clarissa Starling (Jodie Foster), who is investigating a series of murders of young women. "The Silence of the Lambs" is listed on the U.S. National Film Registry as "of great cultural, historical or aesthetic significance." The film also won five Academy Awards for 1991 - Best Film, Best Director, Best Actor (Anthony Hopkins), Best Actress (Jodie Foster) and Best Adapted Screenplay (Ted Tully).

The Moscow City Government has refused to buy land plots in Bulgaria in order to focus on the development of the city-owned Bulgarian resort and sanatorium complex "Kamchiya". This is stated in the message of the Department of Moscow property.According to the head of the department Vladimir Silkin, in 2009-2010 it is planned to invest two billion rubles in the reconstruction of the sanatorium complex.Silkin noted that the sanatorium is planned to be transferred to year-round operation. In summer children will rest there, and in the rest of the year "Kamchiya" will take for rest and treatment of veterans and pensioners, said the official.In February 2009, the media reported that the Moscow authorities intend to reconstruct the sanatorium "Kamchiya", bought by the city six years ago for 2.1 million dollars. It was noted that in 2003, the complex, located on the North Coast, 25 km from the city of Varna, was renovated, but the object still needs additional investment.In 2008, Moscow bought four hectares of land on the shores of the Dead Sea in Israel. Here the capital authorities intend to build a health resort complex, which will include 600 rooms, two indoor pools, spa, medical center, two restaurants. According to experts, the amount of investment in the project is estimated at 100 million dollars. This year Moscow will spend 13 million dollars on the development of the site.Before the crisis, the Moscow authorities planned to buy several more land plots outside Russia, in particular, in Bulgaria and Israel. In early April, the first deputy head of the Department of Land Resources of the capital Oleg Ryzhkov said that all plans of the Moscow authorities to buy land outside the capital, except for the placement of cemeteries, curtailed. According to him, such a decision was made in connection with reduction of city budget expenditures in conditions of financial crisis.

Ukraine has set Russia a condition on gas disputes - Naftohaz is ready to withdraw new lawsuits against Gazprom on condition of favorable long-term transit. This was announced by the Executive Director of the Ukrainian company Yuriy Vitrenko in his Facebook account. According to the top manager, a new long-term contract should cover all the expenses of the Ukrainian side for transit and compensate losses for Gazprom's failure to fulfill its obligations under the current contracts. Vitrenko also recalled the possibility of Gazprom paying the debt of three billion dollars incurred after the Stockholm arbitration ruling in the form of gas supplies. At the end of November, Naftohaz Ukrayiny filed a petition to a Riga court to recognize and enforce in Latvia the Stockholm arbitration ruling in the dispute with Gazprom. Before that, a Swedish court finally rejected Gazprom's claims to the arbitration ruling. Its verdict was recognized as final. The amount of the debt of the Russian company, including interest, approached three billion dollars. The total amount of Ukraine's claims against Gazprom reaches 22 billion dollars. Nearly 12bn dollars of this amount is due to the new lawsuit in Stockholm, and another 7bn dollars is the fine of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine.

The CPRF and its supporters in the left-wing patriotic opposition have demanded not only the resignation but also criminal prosecution of Health and Social Development Minister Mikhail Zurabov in connection with the "extremely difficult situation in the country regarding the provision of medicines to pensioners and beneficiaries." This, reports Interfax, is stated in the "Statement of Patriotic Forces of Russia" distributed on Wednesday. This document, in addition to the CPRF, was signed by 20 other parties and public organizations, including the National Bolshevik Party, the Russian Communist Party-CPSU, the Union of Communist Youth, the Confederation of Labor of Russia, the Movement in Support of the Army, the Movement for the Revival of National Science, the Vanguard of Red Youth, and others. The authors of the document demand "to conduct a comprehensive investigation and punish those responsible for the plight of pensioners and many other categories of Russians." "It is difficult to imagine how today one can exist on a pension of two or three thousand rubles with the endless rise in prices and tariffs for housing and essential goods, in the absence of preferential medicines," the statement reads. According to the document, "compared to 1990, the state monthly underpays a doctor of science 35 thousand rubles, a worker - 16 thousand rubles, a pensioner - 11 thousand rubles, a student - 3 thousand rubles, and this despite the fact that over the past almost 17 years, wages have increased by 36.7 times, while prices for essential goods and services - on average by 164 times. In this regard, the authors of the statement demand an increase in the minimum size of the labor pension to 12 thousand rubles monthly with two-times annual indexation. It should be reminded that earlier the Communists had repeatedly demanded that Mikhail Zurabov be dismissed, particularly in connection with a series of corruption scandals in the Federal Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund (FOMI) under Zurabov's jurisdiction.

Cellular operator MTS has reduced the cost of one megabyte of mobile Internet traffic for subscribers who are in Brazil during the World Cup in 5 times ─ to 40 rubles per 1 megabyte. This was reported to "Lenta.ru" in the company. The reduced price for mobile Internet will be valid from June 12 to July 15, 2014 under the option "BIT abroad". There will also be a new price for a data package with a limited period of validity - by connecting the option, the subscriber will receive 5 megabytes of traffic for 60 minutes for 200 rubles (also a reduction of five times). According to the company's message, MTS plans to compensate for the price reduction by increasing the volume of data services consumption in roaming: visitors of sporting events, as a rule, use mobile Internet more actively than ordinary tourists. Thus, for the first 2 days of the Olympic Games in Sochi, starting from the opening ceremony of the competitions until 8 p.m. on February 9, MTS subscribers located on the territory of Sochi, transferred 18.2 terabytes via the high-speed mobile Internet network, which corresponds to about 36 million uploaded photos in Instagram or 340 thousand mp3-tracks with the recording of the official anthem of the competitions performed at the Fisht stadium. "In Brazil the network capacity will be higher: 4G-internet is available to MTS subscribers there: last week MTS launched LTE roaming in the country in the LTE network of Claro operator", ─ the company specified. The operator started providing international LTE roaming services in November 2013. Currently, MTS provides high-speed mobile Internet service of the "fourth generation" in 11 countries: Brazil, Great Britain, Canada, Switzerland, Norway, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, USA, France, Hong Kong and the Netherlands.

A part of residents of Georgia turned out to be unfamiliar with the Internet. This is evidenced by the research data of the National Democratic Institute of the USA (NDI). RBC paid attention to them. A survey was conducted for the study. The respondents were asked how often they use the Internet. About 1 percent of respondents admitted that they do not know what it is. Another 28 percent reported never going online. 10 percent of respondents do so just once a week. About half of the survey participants use the Internet daily. Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia, has the most users - 81 percent of respondents go online every day there, while only 16 percent do not use it. Among the most important spheres of life on which budget funds should be spent, the survey participants named health care (61 percent of respondents), education (50 percent) and pension/social insurance (47 percent).

Moscow's Tverskoy court has ruled to arrest Pavel Segal, the first vice-president of Opora Rossii, suspected of large-scale embezzlement of maternity capital, until January 19, 2014, ITAR-TASS news agency reported on November 22. Earlier at the court hearing, the prosecutor opposed Segal's arrest, citing his health condition and positive characteristics. At the same time, the investigator stated that the suspect was detained while trying to escape. Lawyers offered to release Segal on bail in the amount of 30 million rubles. He himself stated that he does not admit his guilt. A total of 17 people were detained in the criminal case, most of them have already chosen a measure of restraint. Some of the defendants are placed in pre-trial detention center, some - under house arrest. According to the investigation, the criminal group, which had 400 firms in 300 cities, offered illegal services to low-income women who gave birth to a second child and received the right to maternity capital. According to the law, this allowance can only be spent on improving housing conditions, the child's education or the mother's pension savings. The group cashed in the capital through the fictitious purchase of housing. The criminals gave part of the money to the mother, and part of it (from 30 to 80 percent) they took for themselves. The total amount of illegal income of the group is estimated at 10.5 billion rubles. At the same time, there are only about 80 episodes of embezzlement in the case (the size of the maternity capital in 2010-2012, when the cash-outs were made, amounted to 343-387 thousand rubles). The law enforcement agencies have not yet explained the discrepancy between the number of episodes and the amount of damage.

The price of gold on NYMEX at the end of the trading session on January 26 rose by $13 to $908.8 per ounce, which is the maximum since the end of September 2008. Support for the high cost of gold was provided by the decline in the dollar against other currencies, as well as the general interest in metals on the world market. As for the price of oil, it fell by 74 cents to 45.73 dollars per barrel of WTI, thus correcting after a long growth. Traders are not sure that the real production cut by OPEC countries will be enough to compensate for the sharp drop in demand. The U.S. stock indices rose on January 26. The main reasons for the rise were relatively good news from the real estate market, where secondary sales of houses increased significantly against the background of a record drop in prices. As a result, the Dow Jones index rose 0.48 percent to 8116 points, the tech-heavy Nasdaq strengthened 0.82 percent to 1489 points, and the broad-market S&P 500 index climbed 0.56 percent to 837 points. European stock indices rose for the first time in the last six sessions thanks to positive news from the financial sector. The British FTSE index jumped 3.86 percent to 4209 points, the German DAX rose 3.54 percent to 4327 points, and the French CAC 40 - by 3.73 percent to 2955 points. Of particular note were the securities of Barclays Bank, which rose 73 percent in London. Russian stock indices closed on January 26 with a record growth for 2009. The MICEX index increased by 10.83 percent to 613.56 points, while the RTS index increased by 8.27 percent to 539.38 points. The growth leader on MICEX was Aeroflot shares, which rose by almost a quarter. The Bank of Russia set the dollar rate for January 27 at 32.9018 rubles, which is half a kopeck higher than the previous day. The euro, in turn, rose by 9 kopecks to RUB 42.4861. In the morning of January 27, the euro/dollar ratio on the world market was 1.3189.

The U.S. Navy Research Office will test a new SAFFiR (Shipboard Autonomous Firefighting Robot) in the summer of 2014, according to BBC News. The robot will be tested aboard the decommissioned Casa Grande-class landing dock ship Shedwell. This ship regularly takes part in trials of new firefighting equipment. The tests will involve two versions of the firefighting robot developed by experts from Virginia Polytechnic University and the Universities of California, Los Angeles and Pennsylvania. One of the robots is 1.52 meters tall. The other is slightly taller and capable of a wider range of tasks. During the tests, the robots will need to find a fire hydrant, open it, reach the hose to the fire and put out the fire by directing a jet of water at it. A distinctive feature of these robots is their ability to withstand prolonged exposure to high temperatures. They are equipped with various sensors that will allow the robots to navigate the deck and find survivors. The autonomous vehicles are also equipped with a balancing system that will allow them to keep their balance during strong rocking. In the future, such robots will work on extinguishing fires together with fire brigades. Other details about the prospective robots are not specified. The described range of tasks that they will have to solve, similar to what should perform robots created in the interests of DARPA. Robots for DARPA should move freely over uneven terrain and debris, use conventional and power tools, drive vehicles and move small loads.

Almost half of Russians are not sure that elections in Russia are conducted fairly. These are the results of a poll conducted on behalf of Radio Liberty by the Yuri Levada Center with the participation of the American company InterMedia Survey Institute from January 18 to 22. Thirty-seven percent of citizens consider Russian elections to be fair. According to the survey results, only three percent of Russians explain their desire to go to the presidential election on March 2 by their confidence that these elections will be free and fair. The majority (44 percent) are going to go to the elections because they consider themselves obliged to vote. Seventeen percent of respondents will go to the elections because they believe that voting will change something. 16 percent of respondents plan to support the current government by participating in the elections. The same number are going to vote because they want to support the politicians they like. Sociologists have found out that 47 percent of Russians believe that the current head of state Vladimir Putin is the candidate for the next president. Only 19 percent of respondents believe that the choice of the first person of the country depends on the will of voters. Almost as many (17 percent) believe that the candidacy of the future president is determined by the entourage of the current head of state and his administration. Only 8 percent of respondents believed that the candidates themselves determine who should be president. 45 percent of Russians expect the presidential election to improve their lives and the lives of their families, 44 percent expect wages and pensions to increase, and 41 percent expect stable development of the country. 17 percent of citizens expect nothing from the upcoming vote. 46 percent of respondents believe that after the election Vladimir Putin will become chairman of the government, and nothing more. 18 percent see Putin as the head of the country instead of the formally elected president, 11 percent - as the national leader. 8 percent believe that Putin will become president again.

A resident of Omsk born in 1936 died at the resort Burabai in Akmola region in the north of Kazakhstan. This is reported on Saturday morning by RIA Novosti with reference to the press service of the regional department of internal affairs. Around noon on July 27, while climbing Mount Kokshe, a Russian woman fell and received injuries incompatible with life. The 76-year-old pensioner came to the resort on July 26 to rest and rented an apartment there. The body of the deceased was sent to the morgue, the agency adds. The village of Burabai is located 95 kilometers southeast of Kokshetau on the Kokchetavskaya Upland, at an altitude of about 480 meters. Since the beginning of the 20th century, it has been considered a kumysolecherapeutic resort and welcomes tourists all year round. Mount Kokshe, aka Sinyukha, is the highest point of the upland.

In Penza, an investigation into the information that a balcony collapsed from the height of the second floor together with a 74-year-old pensioner standing on it has been launched. This is stated on the website of the regional investigative Department of the Investigative Committee. It is noted that the emergency occurred in the apartment building № 41 on the street Molodezhnaya. The woman was taken to the hospital, she was diagnosed with spinal injuries. At present, the causes of the incident are being established. In July 2016, in Yakutsk, a concrete canopy that fell from the roof of the Sberbank building crushed the seller of a vegetable stall. The victim was hospitalized. Also, blocks of concrete damaged a balcony on the fifth floor of the building and three parked cars that were empty at the time.

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation has foiled a plan to smuggle weapons to Syria, according to the Associated Press. The criminal scheme was uncovered during an investigation into the trade in stolen cell phones, laptops and game consoles. The main defendant in the case, in particular, tried to supply the Syrians with machine guns and surface-to-air missile systems. According to the case file, released by the FBI on Monday, November 23, Dani Nemr Tarraf (Dani Nemr Tarraf) was arrested in Pennsylvania on charges of organizing arms smuggling on Saturday. Tarraf's citizenship is unknown, but he reportedly has residences in Lebanon and Slovakia. Tarraf reportedly gave an undercover federal agent $20,000 as a down payment for machine guns and Stinger missile systems. According to investigators, Tarraf intended to ship the weapons to the Syrian port of Latakia, where he had connections. The weapons were to be used in Syria or Iran. Tarraf's alleged accomplice Hussein Ali Asfour, a Georgia resident, was arrested Monday. He is accused of trafficking stolen electronics in Slovakia, Detroit and Los Angeles. On the same day, November 23, it became known about the development of another smuggling case: a Belgian citizen arrested in the U.S. pleaded guilty to organizing illegal deliveries of engines for Iranian military aircraft.

Two women suspected of murdering four pensioners have been detained in the Sverdlovsk region. This is reported on Saturday, January 16, on the website of the Investigative Department of the Investigative Committee of Russia in the region. A criminal case under Part 2 of Article 105 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Murder of two persons, committed by a group of persons, coupled with robbery") and Part 4 of Article 162 ("Robbery") was initiated. According to the investigation, two previously convicted women, who served time together in prison, were involved in the crime. The 42-year-old suspect turned out to be a neighbor of the murdered pensioners, her 49-year-old accomplice lived in one of the neighboring districts. The neighbor, who knew about the savings of the elderly spouses for the funeral and the fact that they live without relatives, asked them for tea. During the tea party, her accomplice called the apartment, saying that her friend was supposed to be there. The landlady opened the door to her, after which she began to beat the woman, and the neighbor attacked the man. The victims died of their injuries. The intruders searched the dwelling and embezzled the found 80 thousand rubles. At the same time, police officers, who were in the neighborhood and happened to hear a noise coming from there, started knocking on the apartment. One of the suspects looked out the window, and the police officer identified her as someone with a prior criminal record. The woman responded to the officers that she would open the door, but instead she and her accomplice took the money and fled through the window. The accomplices then took a cab to a store, changed into purchased sportswear and went to a local cafe. There they were detained, after which the suspects wrote a confession and gave the police the remaining 50,000 rubles.

The Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague has ruled to recover 44.4 million dollars in compensation from Russia in favor of Ukrnafta for the loss of its property in Crimea after its accession to Russia. This was reported by the press service of the company. The court decision was taken on April 12. In addition to 44.4 million dollars of compensation for the property, Russia is obliged to pay interest on the amount (5.5 million dollars) and reimburse arbitration costs (3.5 million dollars). As reported in Ukrnafta, it is about the property rights to 16 gas stations and a number of administrative premises, which were located on the territory of the peninsula at the time of Crimea's accession to Russia. The company tried to regain control over them, but Russian law enforcement agencies refused it, the press service said. "Ukrnafta" opened a dispute in international arbitration in 2015. Russia tried to challenge it in the Supreme Court of Switzerland in 2018, but the claim was rejected. The court agreed with the arbitration that the company itself "is an investor under the agreement (between the governments of Russia and Ukraine on the promotion and mutual protection of investments - Lenta.ru's note), and Ukrnafta's property in Crimea is an investment." Russia's representatives said that they did not recognize the jurisdiction of the Hague Arbitration Court in this case. In addition, in comments to the court, they noted that this intergovernmental agreement cannot be the basis for settling the dispute in the arbitration tribunal, RIA Novosti reported. In March, a Ukrainian company, Naftogaz, said it had won a lawsuit against Russia in The Hague arbitration over the loss of the company's assets in Crimea. However, Moscow did not recognize the partial court ruling on the company's claim. The referendum on Crimea's accession to Russia took place in 2014. Then the majority of the peninsula's residents decided in favor of reunification with Russia. The corresponding agreement was signed by Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Ukrainian authorities refused to recognize Crimea as part of Russia and declared the annexation of this territory.

The bill on amendments to the Tax Code, aimed at removing self-employed citizens from the shadow sector of the economy, does not provide for any prohibitive measures. This is reported on Friday, May 12, on the website of the Federation Council. "As noted by the participants of the meeting, the bill does not provide for any prohibitive measures against the self-employed. In particular, it does not provide for any prohibitions concerning the provision of medical services, pension provision, travel abroad and so on," - said in a statement of the press service. According to the Chairman of the Federation Council Committee on Budget and Financial Markets Sergei Ryabukhin, the category of self-employed Russians has from 15 to 22 million people. Earlier in May it became known that for self-employed Russians who have not formalized their relations with the state, certain conditions may be created that will make them think about what is more profitable - to pay taxes or continue to work only for themselves. Valery Ryazansky, chairman of the Federation Council Committee on Social Policy, noted that such measures could include a ban on traveling abroad and deprivation of a full pension.

The court declared dead Russian Grigory Tsurkanu, who was captured in the fall of 2017 by militants of the terrorist organization "Islamic State" (IS, banned in Russia). This is reported by "Kommersant". According to the publication, Tsurkanu's relatives received his death certificate in May 2019, before that he was considered missing. The document stated that the man died on October 12, 2017 in the town of Ash-Shula, Deir ez-Zor province, Syria. One of the Russian's friends explained that all this time the family was looking for Tsurkana. His relatives appealed for help to representatives of the Defense Ministry and people who called themselves employees of the private military company (PMC) Wagner, but none of them managed to find the man or his remains. The relatives applied to the court for Tsurkanu's death certificate to solve domestic and financial problems. Thus, his youngest daughter could not receive her father's pension, as legally the man was considered alive. According to the interlocutors of the publication, the relatives still hope for the return of Tsurkanu and even appealed to psychics, who confirmed that he is alive. In October 2017, the IS published a video depicting captured Russian servicemen. One of them introduced himself as Roman Vasilievich Zabolotny and gave the name of the second man - Grigory Mikhailovich Tsurkanu (1978, Domodedovo district, presumably Moscow region). The Defense Ministry said there had been no incidents in Syria involving the capture of Russian servicemen. Nothing was reported about the further fate of the men.

Sberbank decided to keep low rates on consumer loans without collateral until July 1, 2019. This is stated in the message of the press service of the credit institution, which came to the editorial office of "Lenta.ru". Initially it was assumed that the action will end on April 29. The offer applies to loans from 300 thousand rubles, which are issued for a period of three months to five years. The minimum rates on them were reduced by one percentage point relative to the base rates - from 12.9 to 11.9 percent per annum. For those who receive a salary or pension to an account in Sberbank, when applying for a loan from 300 thousand to a million rubles the rate will be 11.9-16.9 percent, if the loan is more than a million - 11.9-12.9 percent. For other borrowers rates will be at the level of 12.9 to 13.9 percent. Rates for loans up to Br300 thousand remain in the same range - 13.9-19.9 percent. According to the Managing Director of the division "Borrow and Save" Sergei Shirokov, during the campaign, the volume of issuance of such loans increased by 24 percent on average monthly compared to the period before the campaign. In March, Sberbank announced the launch of the program "Consumer loan with a guarantee" and decided to increase the limit age of the borrower from 70 to 80 years. Such a loan will be issued for a period of 3 to 60 months, the loan amount will be in the range from 300 thousand to 3 million rubles.

Retired General Andrei Khorev, former deputy head of the Russian Interior Ministry's Department of Internal Affairs, has testified about the origin of a hotel in Montenegro owned by his wife. This was reported by the Kommersant newspaper on January 20. Khorev told the Russian Investigative Committee that his wife Nadezhda and her business partner Marina Romanova bought the Montenegrin four-star Azimut hotel to develop their tourism business. The general explained that his wife earns about 10 million rubles a year as deputy chief accountant of the Non-State Pension Fund of the Electric Power Industry and receives income from other commercial structures. According to Khorev, Azimut was not mentioned in the family property declarations submitted to the Interior Ministry for 2009-2010 because the deal has not been finalized yet. The agreement on the purchase of the hotel was concluded in 2009, but Nadezhda and Marina Romanova should finally pay for it by 2014. The investigator was satisfied with these explanations. Earlier in the media there was information about other suspicious property of Khorev's wife - four large plots of land and another hotel in Montenegro. It was also reported that Khorev's grandmother in 2009 bought a house and a plot of land in the Moscow region worth 31.7 million rubles. Whether the general was asked questions about this property, Kommersant does not specify. In addition, Khorev was accused of obtaining the status of a combat participant for a one-day business trip to Chechnya for a meeting. A criminal case was denied, but the matter has recently been reconsidered. The final decision has not yet been made. The media call Khorev, who was dismissed from the Interior Ministry in the summer of 2011, the main contact with whom the so-called "solver" Maxim Kagansky was connected. The other day Kagansky was detained in Novosibirsk after a three-month manhunt. Formally, he is still a defendant in the case of one bribe, intended for the investigator of the Main Investigation Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Moscow, Nelli Dmitrieva. But the investigators expect to get information from him about other facts of corruption.

In the winter of 2003, U.S. intelligence agencies considered it likely that al-Qaeda militants would carry out a nuclear bomb attack in Washington or its vicinity, The Daily Beast reported. According to the publication, the group planned to carry out an attack on New Year's Day. "Intelligence believed that the explosion of a nuclear charge could affect the operational control system in Washington. This would have had catastrophic consequences," a source told the publication who was part of the team involved in intelligence verification and preparations for a potential nuclear detonation. A team from the National Security Agency (NSA) was setting up locations where the bomb could be used. Teams of specialists from the U.S. Department of Energy with radiation monitoring devices traveled all over the country, including such cities as Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, and New York. On December 24, 2003, NSA chief Michael Hayden (who led the agency from 1999 to 2005) called David Pepper, the chief of the UK's main interception unit (the Government Communications Center, GCC). He spoke about the instruction to the NSA representative in the CCC "in case of catastrophic loss" to hand over the leadership over "the entire electronic intelligence complex" to the British, TASS reports. The fears were linked to the terrorist attacks in the US staged by the al-Qaeda organization banned in Russia on September 11, 2001. On that day, 19 terrorists hijacked four airplanes: two airliners they directed at the World Trade Center buildings in New York, one - at the Pentagon building, another airliner fell in the state of Pennsylvania, presumably after passengers and crew tried to regain control of the machine. The victims of the attacks were about 3 thousand people, 6.3 thousand were injured.

One of the main reasons for Russian travelers' dissatisfaction with airlines is the inaudible speech of pilots. According to a study by the company "Tutu.ru", received by the editorial office of "Lenta.ru" on Friday, October 6, the messages of the captain of the aircraft are of great importance to passengers. Travelers also complained about poor English and lack of communication with passengers by pilots. At the same time, travelers like it when the captain of the airliner tells about something interesting and jokes. It is noted that this can even compensate for the negative effects of flight delays. Passengers treat the postponement of flights due to bad weather or technical problems with understanding, especially if the airline provides water, food and hotel accommodation on time. However, the lack of information from the carrier makes travelers nervous. It is noted that in such a case passengers threaten not to book tickets for airline flights anymore. In early October it was reported that the best European airline was Turkish Airlines. The best in the category "business class" was named Aeroflot, awards for economy and first class received Lufthansa.

Leaders of eight Saratov branches of political parties in opposition to United Russia have announced the creation of an inter-party council For Fair Elections. Kommersant reports that the council includes the Party of Life, Rodina, the Russian Party of Pensioners, the LDPR, Yabloko, the SPS, the CPRF, and the Socialist United Party. The oppositionists said they intend to fight United Russia's administrative resources in the upcoming 2007 regional and State Duma elections. According to Viktor Markov, leader of the Saratov branch of the SPS, the most important thing for any party is to participate in the elections, but "in the Saratov region this is becoming very problematic, since United Russia has established its own unfair rules of the game". The members of the council intend to ensure the purity of the elections by forming a pool of observers at the elections, as well as cooperation with law enforcement agencies. United Russia calls the agreement a pre-election PR campaign by its opponents and says that business structures going to power are to blame. "Engaging in outright bribery of voters, they create major problems for the election commission and other candidates," said Nikolai Pankov, a member of the party's regional political council. In July, six Ekaterinburg parties came forward with a similar initiative and signed an agreement "On Observance of Democratic Principles of the Electoral Process." At the same time, the Party of Life recognized that the document was primarily directed against United Russia.

In the United States, an influential Democratic congressman, head of the House subcommittee on defense spending, John P. Murtha (John P. Murtha) died. This is reported by CNN on February 8. According to Murtha's spokesman, the 77-year-old man died in a hospital in Arlington, Virginia, as a result of a complication after gallbladder surgery. John Murtha was elected to Congress as a member of the House of Representatives from Pennsylvania in 1974. He became the first Vietnam War veteran in history to be elected to that office. The congressman gained notoriety as an opponent of a long-term military campaign in Iraq. Although he voted in favor of putting troops there in 2002, he issued a statement in 2005 that the U.S. needed to withdraw from Iraq as soon as possible. In 2006, it was Murtha who brought to public attention the incident of the killing of Iraqi civilians in Haditha. Then, on October 19, 2005, after the terrorist attack on their comrade, the U.S. Marines shot more than twenty civilians and the U.S. Department of Defense was initially reluctant to publicize the incident. However, there are dark places in Murtha's biography. In particular, in 2009, the FBI searched the offices of closely associated with him lobbyist companies. Then it became known that thanks to the efforts of the congressman, defense corporations associated with him receive multimillion-dollar orders from the U.S. government. In addition, then it was also revealed that among the "privileged" recipients of Pentagon contracts there is a nephew of the congressman - Robert Murtha, who heads a company called Murtech, the main item of income of which is government defense contracts.

On June 5, the State Duma adopted in the third and final reading amendments to the law "On the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia)", allowing to make the activities of the Central Bank more transparent, RIA "Novosti" reports. With the necessary 226 votes for the decision, the law was supported by 310 deputies, 3 voted against, 2 abstained. It will now be sent to the Federation Council for consideration. According to the law, the size of the National Banking Council (NBS) will be 12 people. Two of them - members of the upper house of parliament - are sent by the Federation Council, three - by the State Duma from its deputies, three each - by the President and the Government of the Russian Federation. The NBS also includes the chairman of the Central Bank. The NBS competence includes consideration of issues related to the improvement of the banking system of the Russian Federation, draft guidelines of the unified state monetary policy, resolution of issues related to the Central Bank's participation in the capital of credit organizations, appointment of the chief auditor of the Central Bank and consideration of his reports, determination of the audit organization - auditor of the annual financial statements of the Central Bank, approval of accounting and reporting rules for the Central Bank upon the proposal of the Board of Directors. The NBS is also competent to review the annual report of the Central Bank, to approve for the next year, not later than December 15 of the previous year, the total amount of expenses for the maintenance of the Central Bank employees, their pensions, life and health insurance, other administrative and economic expenses. According to the law, the National Banking Council is not a management body of the Central Bank. The Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation will not check the financial and economic activities of the Central Bank, its structural subdivisions and institutions.

A special Pentagon commission has developed a new policy on arms procurement for the U.S. Army, Defense News reported. This document was published on December 14, but some of its provisions became known earlier. According to the commission's proposals, it is necessary to make rather radical changes in the arms procurement policy. First of all, military officials propose to separate the costs of buying new weapons, as well as research and development from the total military budget of the Pentagon. The authors of the document also propose to allow commanders of combat units to take a greater part in the development of weapons - to allow them to make appropriate recommendations to developers based on their own combat experience. It is also proposed to increase competition in the creation of support equipment, to speed up the process of testing new weapons, and in the future to deliver some weapons as they are ready, without waiting until industry can build a large number of them. According to the head of the commission, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England, these rules will save billions of dollars in the future. Gordon England is one of the authors of the plan to reduce military spending. He, in particular, set a task for military officials - to develop a program to reduce spending from 2007 to 2011. During this time, it is planned to remove 32 billion dollars from the long-term military budget. Washington needs this money to compensate for the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina and to pay for the additional costs of protracted operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

All pensions in 2018 will be indexed to the inflation rate, except for the pensions of working pensioners. This, as TASS reports, was announced by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Prime Minister also noted that the draft budget of the Pension Fund for next year includes money for the payment of maternity capital. "From January 1, 2020 it should be indexed," Medvedev said. On June 9, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said that the Russian government would be able to return to the issue of indexation of pensions for working pensioners only by 2020. The minister explained that the cancellation of indexation was an anti-crisis measure taken to optimize expenditures. On the other hand, it helped to focus on supporting pensioners who have no other income except for payments from the state. The Higher School of Economics' expert opinion on the 2017 budget amendments, published on June 8, concludes that pension provision for Russians will decrease by 2020. According to the baseline scenario of the forecast, insurance pensions in real terms will increase by 1.4 percent in 2017 and decrease by 0.2 percent in 2018-2020 after a 6.1 percent decline in 2015-2016.

The Bank of Russia has published draft instructions on the peculiarities of inspections of non-state pension funds with the participation of employees of the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA), the Kommersant newspaper reports. The main purpose of the inspections is to prepare for critical situations and to prevent shortfalls in savings. For example, in late June, the DIA reported that the shortage of savings, reserves, and bankruptcy estate of the Transstroi non-state pension fund amounted to 98 percent of the fund's total assets. Since non-state pension funds will enter the system of guaranteeing savings, it is necessary to assess their compliance with the requirements of this system. It is assumed that the DIA will check the volume and structure of NPF liabilities to clients, calculation, timeliness and completeness of payment of guarantee contributions to the pension savings guarantee fund, keeping records of liabilities to clients, as well as the ability to form a register of the fund's liabilities on any day. The inspections may be both scheduled and unscheduled. NPF representatives expect that the DIA will not set the tariff of guarantee contributions at the upper limit, having made sure that the fund is reliable enough. In this case, NPFs believe that DIA inspections will only benefit the business of non-governmental funds. At the same time, for small NPFs, according to their testimony, checks with the DIA may become stressful. Some funds keep records in programs like Excel, they will have to spend money on new software.

Tax consultants may be recognized as accomplices to illegal tax activities and be punished under the Criminal Code. Such data is contained in a decree on criminal penalties for tax offenses, which the Russian Supreme Court approved on New Year's Eve. According to Vedomosti, this decree is a clarification for other courts on the application of the amendments made to the Criminal Code back in 2003. In addition, since 2007, the courts will be able to prosecute not only for incorrect completion of tax returns, but also invoices. In such a case, both managers and accountants of the company and persons filling in the primary documents will be accused. According to the new ruling, tax agents will be punished more severely - in particular, employers for failure to remit income tax. The employer's interest in such a case may be not only property, but also related to "careerism, protectionism, family" and other non-property interests. The new ruling also clarifies that criminal liability may arise only if the funds were not received by the budget due to willful incorrect filling in of tax declaration or its failure to submit. If the company did not pay to the budget by mistake, then a criminal case cannot be initiated. Also, no cases will be initiated regarding non-payment of non-tax levies, in particular, for environmental pollution or mandatory pension insurance contributions.

An elderly resident of the Isle of Wight has discovered a 16th century silver whistle with a royal monogram. The find was made with the help of a metal detector, reports the Telegraph newspaper. Keith Stewart explored with an amateur metal detector in a field in the locality of Sholfleet and found a small object that looked like a toy cannon. The 62-year-old pensioner didn't think much of the find, but showed it to a local forensic investigator. The investigator determined that the cannon was nothing more than an antique hunting whistle made of silver. The find was sent to the British Museum for further study. Experts on the Tudor era found that the whistle is engraved with the monogram of King Henry VIII's first wife Catherine of Aragon. It is known that the king visited the island only once - in 1540, being already married by his fourth marriage to Anne of Cleves. It is unlikely that anyone but Henry himself would have dared to own an object with the regalia of the English monarch's former wife. As soon as the museum examination is over, experts will name the market value of the whistle. If no museum wants to buy this object, it will be returned to Keith Stewart. He will have the right to dispose of it at his discretion.

Shakhtar Donetsk defeated Dynamo Kyiv in the match for the Ukrainian Super Cup. The meeting, which took place in Lviv, ended 2-0 in favor of the Donetsk side. The score was opened only on 75 minutes of the game - striker Oleksandr Gladkiy scored. In stoppage time, the Pitmen doubled their lead thanks to Marlos' goal. The game was played at the stadium in Lviv, as all clubs are banned from playing in the south-east of the country due to armed clashes between the Ukrainian army and the people's militia. Six Shakhtar players - Brazilians Alex Teixeira, Fred, Dentinho, Douglas Costa and Ismaili, as well as Argentine Facundo Ferreira - did not take part in the meeting. All of them ran away from the club on July 19, but Fred and Ismaily said that they would return to the Pitmen's camp only on July 23. The fate and location of the rest of the fugitives are still unknown. "Shakhtar won the Super Cup of Ukraine for the sixth time. Previously, the Pitmen won the trophy in 2005, 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2013. Kyiv have won the Super Cup five times - in 2004, 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2011. The start of the regular Ukrainian championship is scheduled for July 25.

Sevastopol organizations will be able to receive compensation for part of the costs of advanced training or retraining of older employees if they organize and pay for such courses themselves. This is stated in a report published on the website of the portal "The Future of Russia. National Projects". Before that, two mechanisms worked in the city: employees of retirement or pre-retirement age received an educational certificate for retraining and chose where to improve their skills, or the courses were ordered and paid for by the government of Sevastopol. It is assumed that companies will reimburse part of the cost of courses lasting two weeks to three months. The work is carried out within the framework of the national project "Labor Productivity and Employment Support", which runs until 2024.

Mass events will be held in the center of the capital on November 7, the day of the Day of Reconciliation and Concord, the Gazeta newspaper reports. The CPRF will hold a march at 11:00 Moscow time along the route Bolshaya Yakimanka - Bolshaya Polyanka - Maly and Bolshoy Kamenny Bridges - Borovitskaya Square - Mokhovaya Street - Manezhnaya Square - Okhotny Ryad - Teatralnaya Square - Teatralny Proyezd - Lubyanka Square. At 18:00 there will be a rally and a concert. At 11:15 the demonstration will begin, which is organized by "Labor Russia", the Moscow Workers' Council, the Congress of Soviet Women. Their route runs through Bolshaya Yakimanka and Bolshaya Polyanka, along Bolshaya and Maliy Kamenny Bridges, Borovitskaya Square, Mokhovaya Street, Okhotny Ryad to Teatralnaya Square. A rally will also take place there at 15:00. A rally of the Union of Right Forces will be held from 17:00 to 20:00 on Slavyanskaya Square. The electoral bloc of the "Russian Party of Pensioners" and the "Party of Social Justice", which were going to hold a march along the route: Alexandrovsky Garden - Mokhovaya Street - Okhotny Ryad - Revolution Square, were refused to hold festive events. They were refused due to the festive events on Red Square. Traffic will be suspended on all streets where the rallies and demonstrations will take place, which will resume immediately after the end of the actions. Police officers and vigilantes will ensure the protection of public order during the marches and rallies.

In 2014, the pension savings of citizens, which will be allocated to the distributive (insurance) part, will be indexed by seven percent. This, as reported by RIA Novosti, was announced by Finance Minister Anton Siluanov. Journalists quoted experts calling the decision on savings actually a confiscation of funds. "Nothing like that," the Minister said, "a year of citizens' obligations will be formed only in the insurance part, interest will be charged on these obligations, the same as on the general pension system. According to him, on these funds will be accrued yield according to the formula "inflation plus two", which will amount to about seven percent. The head of the agency also assured that pension savings will be directed to the distributive part only in 2014. Such a measure will reduce the transfer from the budget to the Pension Fund by 244 billion rubles. Siluanov specified that these funds will be reserved in the budget and will not be spent. The enrollment of pension savings of citizens in the insurance part is provided for in the draft budget for 2014-2016. Earlier, Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseyev said that Russians in the future will receive "decent compensation" for the forced transfer of savings to the pay-as-you-go part of the pension. The decision to cancel the funded part of pensions was taken against the backdrop of budget cuts, which are being carried out due to the slowdown in economic growth. Nevertheless, the government explains the need to transfer savings by the planned "cleanup" of non-state pension funds. NPFs will be forced to turn into joint stock companies, as a result of which many funds, as the Ministry of Finance believes, will cease to exist. NPFs will have to undergo a Central Bank check and get a license again. If it turns out that the fund is not viable, the savings of this NPF will remain in the PFR until citizens choose new NPFs.

The Moscow City Court has selected a jury for the murder case against Novaya Gazeta journalist Anna Politkovskaya at the third attempt. This was reported by "Interfax" on Tuesday, July 23. Alexei Mikhalchik, a lawyer for one of the accused, told the agency that 22 jurors were selected: 12 main jurors and ten alternates. The defense immediately challenged the panel, but Mihalchik doubts that the court will satisfy this request. The defense lawyer did not specify the reasons for the challenge. At the same time, another lawyer for the defendants, Saidakhmet Arsamerzaev, told RAPSI that the panel consists mainly of pensioners and unemployed people, and it "lacks diversity." The lawyer is also dissatisfied with the fact that there are no natives of the Caucasus among the assessors. The case will be considered in open mode. Jurors will serve four days a week, Monday through Thursday. Two previous attempts by the court to select jurors to hear the case ended in failure. Most of the candidates recused themselves due to workloads or vacation plans. As a result, the court has been unable to recruit more than ten jurors, while the case requires at least 12 grand jurors and two alternates. The defendants in the case are former Moscow Police Department operative Sergei Khadzhikurbanov, Chechen-born Lom-Ali Gaitukayev, and his nephews Rustam, Ibragim and Dzhabrail Makhmudov. They are charged under articles "murder" and "illegal trafficking in weapons". For the most serious of the crimes, the law provides for a penalty of life imprisonment. The defendants do not admit guilt. The investigation considers Gaitukayev and Khadzhikurbanov as organizers of the crime, and Rustam Makhmudov as the executor. Two other defendants in the case allegedly monitored Politkovskaya's movements. The perpetrators of the crime have not been identified. Earlier, the court sentenced former policeman Dmitry Pavlyuchenkov, who pleaded guilty and testified against the other defendants, to 11 years in prison. According to the investigation, it was he who handed Makhmudov the gun used in the murder and also organized surveillance of the journalist. Anna Politkovskaya was killed in the entrance of her house on October 7, 2006. The court had already considered the murder case in 2008-2009, but at that time the jury acquitted all the defendants in the case.

Illegal armed formations left the Pankisi Gorge in late August - early September, and thus the militants have been on Russian territory for more than a month. This was stated by Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze in an interview with the national radio on Monday, RIA "Novosti" reports. He recalled that the anti-criminal operation of Georgian law enforcement agencies in Pankisi began in late August. At the moment, according to the Georgian leader, "the active phase of the anti-criminal and anti-terrorist operation in the Pankisi Gorge has been completed." Shevardnadze said that more than 40 suspects in various crimes were detained during the operation, two of them resisted and were liquidated. "Units of Georgian police and internal troops have been deployed in every village and hamlet of the gorge - they will not allow illegal armed formations to invade the gorge," the Georgian president said. Speaking about the possibility of "direct aggression against Georgia" by Russia, Shevardnadze did not rule out that such actions could "be aimed at disrupting the construction of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline." In addition, he said that anti-crime operations similar to Pankisi may be carried out in other regions of Georgia. The decision on this will be made depending on the severity of the situation. "If the situation is acute in Tskhinvali or Gori districts, or in any other region, we will definitely apply this unique experience of uniting the capabilities of various law enforcement and security agencies gained in Pankisi," the Georgian leader promised. Commenting on the possibility of Georgia's withdrawal from the CIS, Shevardnadze said that he does not intend to raise this issue at the summit of CIS states in Chisinau on October 6-7. On the contrary, in his opinion, the Kishinev summit "should play a positive role in overcoming the existing difficulties in Georgian-Russian relations." "Despite the decision taken by the country's parliament to withdraw Georgia from the Commonwealth, I will not implement this recommendation yet," Shevardnadze assured. In addition, the Georgian president said at a briefing in Tbilisi that in 2005, when his presidential term expires, he will retire and write his memoirs.

In France on December 5 will begin a large-scale nationwide strike of trade unions against pension reform. This is reported by RIA Novosti. It is assumed that the action will be indefinite. It is reported that in Paris will stop working eleven subway lines, expected disruptions in the work of trains, high-speed trains TGV and buses. The Russian embassy has asked its citizens to avoid protest sites. Health workers, teachers, lawyers and students will take part in the strike. In addition, 250 demonstrations are planned across the country, which may bring up to a million people, reports FranceInfo. It is noted that the protests are supported by 68 percent of the French. In August, it was reported that French President Emmanuel Macron, before the election promised not to raise the retirement age, found a way to formally keep his promise, but to make it so that citizens have to retire later. In his opinion, it would be fair if a person who started working later would end it later. Before that, he wanted to find a way to make the average retirement age rise to 64. In France, the minimum retirement age is set at 62 for men and women. An average life expectancy of 82 years allows the French to rest longer than citizens of any other country in the world. Nevertheless, the full amount of pension a citizen receives, if his length of service is not less than 41.5 years. In order for the pension to be full regardless of the length of service, it is necessary to work until the age of 67. In general, the system itself seems to experts too complicated - it contains 42 different retirement modes. Therefore, the government has been looking for a way to simplify the system and make the French work longer. But any initiative is met with sharp protests.

Viktor Yanukovych and George W. Bush spent approximately the same amount of money on their election campaigns. An expert of the Carnegie Endowment for International Development, Andres Åslund, who used to be an economic adviser to the Ukrainian government, said this in an interview with BBC News. According to Oslund, Viktor Yanukovych spent about 600 million dollars on the election, with half of this amount coming from Ukrainian businessmen and the rest from Russian companies, primarily from Gazprom. George W. Bush's election campaign cost 670 million dollars. Assessing the current situation in the country, Åslund noted that "the Ukrainian revolution will put an end to bureaucracy's bullying of business." Among the negative aspects, the former economic advisor named the opposition strike, as a result of which many Ukrainians simply do not work, as well as a number of populist gestures of Yanukovych's election campaign. In particular, before the election, the National Bank of Ukraine printed a lot of money on the prime minister's orders, and Yanukovych doubled the minimum pension for the population. Thus, the inflation rate increased. On the whole, the expert expressed confidence that the Ukrainian economy would not significantly slow down its growth rate.

Saudi Arabia demanded from the U.S. to withdraw lawsuits accusing the U.S. of helping the terrorist group "Al-Qaeda" (banned in Russia) in organizing the attacks in New York on September 11, 2001. This was announced by the lawyer of the kingdom Michael Kellogg, reports Bloomberg. The defense told U.S. District Judge George Daniel that "inferences, speculation and rumors are not enough." The class action lawsuit against Saudi Arabia by relatives of the 850 people killed and more than 1,500 injured in the Sept. 11 attacks reached U.S. federal court last March 21. Attorneys for the victims of the attack claim that Saudi Arabia supplied the terrorists with money under the pretext of charitable activities. The document identifies several Saudi charitable organizations that the plaintiffs believe were involved in creating and funding training camps for militants of the terrorist organization al-Qaeda (banned in Russia). As evidence, they provided the words of a former FBI officer, a senator from the state of Florida and a member of the United States Intelligence Committee, who claimed that the kingdom supported extremists. In 2015, the US Congress passed the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, which allowed Saudi Arabia to be sued for the first time for promoting terrorism. Prior to that, the country was protected by sovereign immunity. On September 11, 2001, the largest terrorist attack in modern history occurred in the United States. Two passenger planes crashed into the World Trade Center towers in New York City, a third fell on the Pentagon building, and another crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. As a result, about three thousand people were killed, not counting 19 terrorists, and more than four thousand more were injured.

Ukrainian miners have gone on strike at one of the mines in the town of Novovolynsk in Volyn Region. This is stated in a report published on the website of the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of the country. The workers of the first shift of the mine "Novovolynsk-1", who have not received their salaries since April, refused to fulfill their duties. Earlier, trade union activists appealed to the authorities and even met with the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Volodymyr Demchyshyn on July 24. But, as reported in the public organization, to no avail. "The miners have the impression that the coal they mined is not needed by the state, as it lies in warehouses and is not sold," said Anatoliy Mukhamedjanov, head of the local branch of the Confederation. Ukrainian miners have already gone on protests this year. On April 27, several dozen people held a picket near the office of Rinat Akhmetov's Donbas Fuel and Energy Company (DTEK) in Kiev, calling for more mass protests by coal workers. Another picket, which was attended by over a thousand people, was held in the Ukrainian capital on April 22. The miners gathered in front of the Verkhovna Rada building demanded the resignation of Energy Minister Volodymyr Demchyshyn, the payment of wage arrears and the repeal of laws on reducing miners' pensions. Later, Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said that only half of the protesters were miners. The other 50 percent were hired by the organizers of the rally.

The Russian Council of Shopping Centers has rejected a proposal by owners of retail real estate to switch to the principle of paying rent based on a percentage of their sales turnover. This is reported by the RIA Novosti news agency.The proposal to replace the fixed rate for payment of rent for retail space with a percentage of sales turnover "with subsequent adjustment based on actual volume" was published in an open letter to developers from the Association of Fashion Industry Enterprises.However, the developers considered that such a method of collecting rent payments would lead to "a serious temporary disruption of cash flows coming to the owner in a planned manner".The owners of premises also did not support the retailers' initiative to cancel deposits. Recall that these deposits allow the owner to compensate for losses in case of early termination of the agreement at the initiative of the tenant. Their amount is equivalent to the amount of rent for three or four months.In addition, representatives of trade also proposed to cancel marketing payments for the promotion of shopping centers. However, even this idea did not meet with the approval of the owners of shopping centers - in their opinion, the reduction of advertising costs will lead to a decrease in the attendance of shopping centers, which will negatively affect the income of retailers themselves.

British webcam models Elysia Downings and Sophia have revealed how much money they make from chatting to men on camera. Their stories were published by The Mirror. Downings, a single mother and webcam model from Buxton, Derbyshire, said that her annual earnings amount to 72 thousand pounds (more than 6 million rubles). Downings noted that she doesn't always have to bare herself in front of the camera to earn money from male viewers. Sometimes, the single mom reports, they just need to talk to her as "a girl." Downings works as a webcam model for only two to three hours a day, and the rest of the time she runs an online lingerie and sex toy store. Her six-year-old son thinks "mommy sells lingerie." Downings doesn't feel the need to tell her child the truth yet, as she fears he will be bullied. "Hopefully I'll be able to retire from this job at 40, by which time my son will be 18 and I can enjoy life without thinking about work," Downings informed. Another webcam model Sophia from London keeps her identity secret because she fears her family will find out about her part-time job. She believes her profession is stigmatized in society. "You can use different things to change your appearance, like wearing a wig, but there is always the possibility that acquaintances or friends will recognize you," the woman reports. Sofia said that she can earn up to 500 pounds sterling (about 43 thousand rubles) in a day by dressing up as a "sexy secretary". She has been combining her main job in the hotel business with web kaming for 13 years. Despite the earnings, the woman intends to quit her career as a webcam model this year and devote herself fully to her main job.

President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko said that an agreement had been reached with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on the gas issue. According to him, Minsk will pay $130 per thousand cubic meters for Russian gas under the current contract with Gazprom in 2017, RIA Novosti reports with reference to the broadcast of Belarusian television. At the same time, Lukashenko specified, the costs will be partially compensated by Belarus' re-export of Russian duty-free oil. "Equal conditions should be... I told Putin, if you're not ready to work on such terms, you say... No, we don't want it to be worse in Belarus, but we would like the contract, which ends this year, to finish as it is, here is $130, so that it would be $130 by the end," said the Belarusian leader. Lukashenko emphasized the importance of reaching an agreement on compensation for this price. Earlier, the President of Belarus said that the oil prices from Russia are set acceptable. "We are finishing the modernization of our oil refineries in the near future, although they are very high level now. But we will finish - the yield of light oil products will be 95 percent, then the issue of oil will fall away by itself," he stressed. April 4, Belarusian Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Semashko said that his country had agreed with Russia to resume annual supplies of Russian oil in the amount of 24 million tons from this year to 2024 inclusive. Of this volume, 18 million tons will be sent to refineries, while the rest will be "re-targed," with duties remaining in the budget of Belarus. Also, the Prime Minister said that the effect on the economy of Belarus from the agreements with Russia in the oil and gas sector will amount to about $500 million in 2017 and $800 million in the next two years. April 3, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said that Minsk would pay back the debt to Moscow for the supplied gas. The amount of the debt, according to him, is $726 million.

The Czech Agriculture Ministry has proposed to invite Ukrainians to fight the bark beetle every year. This is reported by RIA Novosti with reference to the department's data. This issue is planned to discuss in the government. In particular, it is proposed to develop a new program for issuing work visas. "Until 2022, 4.5 thousand workers can arrive in the Czech Republic in this way, at the rate of 1.5 thousand people per year," - specified in the Ministry. It is assumed that the visa will be issued for a year, the purpose and term of arrival in the country can not be changed. The Ministry of Agriculture pointed out that workers abroad have to look for workers, as locals are not in a hurry to take jobs, the industry lacks at least 57 thousand people. Due to the pests infesting Czech forests, the profit of the state company "Forests of the Czech Republic" for the first half of the year fell 10 times - to 169 million crowns (about 7 million dollars). To compensate for the losses, the country's authorities have allocated about 108 million dollars in subsidies for private forest owners. In early June, Bloomberg reported that the corn leafhopper, which is spreading rapidly around the world, is ravaging farmers. The insects devour nearly two hundred plant species, including rice, corn, vegetables, cotton, wheat, soybeans and sugarcane. China has begun using drones to control the pests.

"Gazprom is obliged to compensate Ukraine for a 34-percent overpayment for imported gas in March. This was stated by Naftohaz director Yuriy Vitrenko on his Facebook page. He said that Gazprom had failed to fulfill its contractual obligations, although it had previously issued an invoice for March, which Naftohaz had paid. Vitrenko also noted that gas prices on some days reached up to a thousand dollars per thousand cubic meters. "If we had bought gas for those days "for insurance", the entire cost of gas would have fallen on our losses, which no one compensated us," the top manager said. On March 3, Vitrenko said that Ukraine had to buy European gas four times more expensive than from Gazprom. According to him, it is up to the Russian company to make up for the difference in the cost of fuel. "Gazprom and Naftohaz initiated the proceedings back in 2014. As it became known on February 28, the Stockholm Arbitration Court ordered Gazprom to pay Naftogaz $4.6 billion for under-delivery of contractually agreed volumes of gas for transit. Taking into account the previous arbitration ruling, under which Naftohaz was obliged to pay Gazprom two billion dollars for the supplies made, the Russian side owes Ukraine 2.56 billion dollars. Gazprom said that it did not agree with the court ruling and intended to defend its rights.

Magnit, Russia's largest retail chain, was the first company in the consumer sector to decide to create its own pension fund. This is reported by the Kommersant newspaper, citing its sources. The company itself has not yet made an official announcement, and the CEO and co-owner of "Magnit" Sergei Galitsky refused to comment on this information. According to the publication, to create the fund, Magnit plans to buy a non-state pension fund (NPF) "Christian Pension Fund 'Virtue'". After the deal is finalized, the NPF is expected to be re-registered in Krasnodar, where the chain's head office is located, and renamed Magnit. According to the retailer's plans, the NPF will serve only Magnit employees, focusing primarily on those who have worked in the company for more than five years. In total, the chain employed more than 79 thousand people by the beginning of October. At the same time, as the newspaper writes, to reach self-sufficiency NPF needs to attract more than 20 thousand clients. The Magnit chain unites more than three thousand grocery stores in Russia. According to the results of the first half of the year, the company's revenue amounted to 2.38 billion dollars, and net profit - 117.9 million dollars. NPF "Dobrodetel" serves about 5600 people. According to the FFMS as of October 1 of this year, the fund's pension savings amounted to 6.1 million rubles, pension savings - 19.5 million, and its own assets - 78.8 million. Now practically all major Russian companies and banks have their own NPFs, including Lukoil, Transneft, Nornickel, Sberbank, VTB and Gazprombank. Such NPFs also enter the open market, but their main clients are employees of the founding companies.

Rosneft President Igor Sechin's monthly salary ranges from 15 to 20 million rubles and is set by the company's Board of Directors. Such information is contained in the corporate standard on payments and compensations to the company's top managers published by Rosneft. The corporate standard also specifies the amount of the annual bonus for the head of Rosneft. According to the document, it amounts to 150 percent of his annual cash remuneration. In addition, Sechin, in accordance with the standards, is entitled to a bonus of 5 percent of his monthly salary for participation in the company's board meetings and a bonus (its amount is not disclosed) for work with information constituting a state secret. Rosneft's top managers are also reimbursed for travel and entertainment expenses, rent and education expenses for children under the age of 23. Also on May 5, the press service of the company reported that the Board of Directors extended the powers of Rosneft President Igor Sechin for another 5 years. Russian President Vladimir Putin in mid-April during a direct line recommended the heads of state-owned companies to disclose their income. Speculation about the high salaries of state-owned company executives in the press and blogs resumed after the government in March authorized top managers of state-controlled commercial structures not to disclose their incomes. In particular, it was about the heads of Russian Railways Vladimir Yakunin, Gazprom Alexei Miller and Rosneft Igor Sechin. By Resolution No. 276, the Government changed the procedure for publishing such information, exempting the heads of 23 open joint-stock companies and their family members from these obligations. Now only the heads, their deputies and chief accountants of companies that are 100 percent state-owned and whose management is appointed by the government must publish the data. Sechin has been head of Rosneft since May 2012, succeeding Eduard Khudainatov. "Rosneft is Russia's third largest gas producer after Gazprom and Novatek. It is the world's largest public company in terms of oil production. Daily production exceeds 563 thousand tons of oil and 147 million cubic meters of gas. The main shareholder (69.5 percent) is Rosneftegaz (owned by the state), 19.75 percent of shares are owned by BP, the remaining 10.75 percent are in free float.

Russia was prepared for the global financial crisis thanks to the conservative policy of the government, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said at a meeting of the Foreign Investment Advisory Council. His words are reported by Interfax. "I would like to say that we did not let the crisis take us by surprise," Putin added. According to the prime minister, Russia is building its economy and financial system taking into account potential risks and threats. At the same time, in his opinion, the global crisis took American, European and British financial structures by surprise. Speaking about the country's economy, Putin emphasized that Russia's financial system is well prepared for the long-term negative impact of the global economy. For example, the fall in oil prices is fully compensated by the Reserve Fund. This became possible due to the policy of saving part of oil revenues. According to the Russian Prime Minister, the state budget in 2009 will be balanced even at average annual oil prices of 70 dollars per barrel. The stability of the Russian economy is also influenced by a positive current account, as well as large gold and foreign exchange reserves, which are used to maintain the exchange rate. In addition, according to Putin, Russia has practically minimized its public foreign debt by early repayment of the main part of it. It should be noted that Russia's international reserves, most of which are placed in foreign currency, have been shrinking recently. Only from October 4 to October 10, they decreased by $15.5 billion. As of October 10, the total volume of reserves amounted to $530.6 billion. For comparison, back in August this year they amounted to 581.1 billion dollars.

Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov said on Saturday that the government intends to limit the growth of tariffs of natural monopolies caused by the rate of inflation, RosBusinessConsulting reports. Deputy Prime Minister is sure that one of the main components of price growth in the Russian Federation is the increase in tariffs for housing and communal services, as well as natural monopolies. "We plan that the growth of railway tariffs, electricity and gas prices should not tentatively exceed 10 percent. Not higher than the inflation rate," Zhukov explained. Speaking about the additional funds available to the treasury, the official noted that they should be used, in particular, for social needs, such as wage increases and pensions. Zhukov reminded that inflation in Russia is now about 8 percent, which exceeds the figures of 2004 and is higher than stipulated by the forecast for the current year.

Zubair Mutayev, one of the defendants in the case of former Makhachkala Mayor Said Amirov, has gone on hunger strike in the pre-trial detention center. This was reported to TASS by Vladimir Postanyuk, head of the lawyer's group. "Mutayev reported that he is being pressured by law enforcement officers in the detention center to change his position on the case. He is forced to go on hunger strike," Postaniuk said. May 19, at the court session in the videoconference mode, the interrogation of one of the victims in the case began. The case is being considered by the North Caucasus District Military Court. This is the second case against former mayor of Makhachkala Said Amirov, the defendants of which are also Yusup Dzhaparov, the Akhmedov brothers, Murad Aliyev, Magomed Kadiev and Zubair Mutayev. According to the investigation, all the accused are involved in the organization of the murder in 2011 of Arsen Gadjibekov, an investigator of the Investigative Committee of Dagestan, as well as in the commission of other grave and especially grave crimes on the territory of the republic. Depending on the role of each, they are charged with attempted murder, attempt on the life of a person administering justice or conducting a preliminary investigation, participation in an illegal armed formation, banditry, terrorism and illegal arms trafficking. In July 2014, the North Caucasus District Military Court found Amirov and Dzhaparov guilty of preparing a terrorist attack. According to the prosecution's version, they planned to shoot down a passenger airplane carrying Sagid Murtazaliyev, a deputy of the People's Assembly of Dagestan and manager of the republic's Pension Fund, who was considered Amirov's political rival. The former mayor of Makhachkala was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Amirov, who had been mayor of Makhachkala since 1998, was arrested in June 2013. Before that, he was detained as a result of a special operation, which required blocking several streets of Makhachkala with armored personnel carriers and special forces. Amirov himself was taken out of the city by helicopter.

Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus has negatively assessed the initiative of MPs who proposed to charge not only Russia but also Germany for the "occupation". This is reported by Delfi.lt. According to Adamkus, Lithuania is not yet ready to demand compensation for damages from the FRG. "It is necessary to prepare well for such steps, and not to pull this idea out like a rabbit out of a hat," - said the President. Otherwise, he said, the republic's image could suffer significantly. Representatives of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs made a proposal to make claims against Germany. They discussed issues related to compensation for damages from the "Soviet occupation" at a meeting on June 13. A draft resolution, which would have fixed at what stage the resolution of these issues is at, was registered in parliament back in 2007. However, it was never adopted. In this situation, as Delfi.lt notes, the parliamentarians decided to change tactics and develop a new draft, which would also deal with the requirements to Germany. In their opinion, Lithuania could thus demonstrate the objective nature of its claims. The Lithuanian leadership has been demanding compensation for the "Soviet occupation" since the early 1990s. The claims are addressed to Russia as the legal successor of the Soviet Union. In 2000, the Seimas of Lithuania adopted a law that obliges the government to take concrete actions to compensate for the damage. The Russian side refuses to pay for the "occupation".

Deputy Chairman of the State Duma Committee on Transport Alexander Starovoitov called the idea of introducing special signs for cars with drivers over 75 years old pointless. He expressed this opinion to the National News Service (NSN) on Friday, December 2. "A huge number of motorists and in 65, and in 70 years old perfectly drive, do not create any interference and can give a head start in terms of the quality of driving," - said the Deputy. In addition, the statistics of road accidents shows that older people get into accidents less often than younger people, he said. According to Starovoitov, special signs like "Beware of a person with disabilities" are not paid attention to by ordinary drivers. "This is not done so that all drivers faltered from it, but for some services to realize that behind the wheel is a disabled person," - said the MP. Instead of introducing special signs, he suggested thinking about a more thorough medical examination of pensioners. December 2, the head of the capital's Arbat district Evgeny Babenko proposed to introduce special signs for drivers over 75 years old. Elderly people drive a car in summer to the dacha, and in winter do not use it and lose skills, he told the agency "Moscow". On November 28, 79-year-old TV presenter and natural scientist Nikolai Drozdov hit a woman crossing the road in an inappropriate place in southwest Moscow. He admitted his guilt and promised to follow the fate of the victim.

An impromptu "striptease at home" so engrossed two elderly Norwegian bachelors that they did not notice that their safe with 75 thousand kroner (almost 9 thousand dollars) was stolen. A 30-year-old attractive blonde woman called at the home of the Toquam brothers, 73 and 80. When they opened the door, she began to undress right on the doorstep. The pensioners were so amazed that they let her into the house, Reuters reports. There was no limit to the brothers' surprise when a second, older participant appeared in this impromptu strip show. "The older one was the most unrestrained of the girls. She sat on my brother's lap and put her legs around him. And you know, we saw the whole thing," the second brother recounted. The striptease lasted 15 minutes, but it was later revealed that the show was not free. While the old people were having fun, their safe with all their savings was stolen - there was a total of 75,000 kroner (almost 9,000 dollars). "We kept such a large sum at home because we wanted to buy something. But it doesn't matter, because we haven't had this much fun in a long time," the brothers said.

Scientists warn women against following the example of Angelina Jolie, who announced that she had undergone surgery to remove her ovaries and fallopian tubes because of a genetically determined cancer risk. Doctors said that mutations in the BRCA1 gene are not necessarily linked to the dangerous disease, Nature News reported. The actress learned about her genetically determined risk of developing breast cancer back in 2013 and had surgery to remove her mammary glands. This decision led to a powerful "Angelina Jolie effect": in the UK alone, the number of women who underwent genetic diagnosis increased by 250 percent in June and July. However, mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are not difficult to detect - much more uncertain is their impact on the development of malignant tumors. The fact is that scientists have not yet collected a large enough data set of examined patients to statistically prove such a causal relationship. Such poorly studied mutations are called variants of uncertain significance. The problem is further complicated by the fact that until 2013, the monopoly on BRCA testing was held in the US by Myriad Genetics, a private company that refuses to publish its statistics on the link between mutations in these genes and cancer. Meanwhile, scientists compiling their publicly available databases conclude that many variants of undetermined BRCA are completely harmless. "The more people who get tested, the more we identify carriers of a particular genetic mutation, and it goes from being a variant of uncertain significance to being safe," said geneticist Katherine Nathanson of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. Uncertain genetic testing results often lead women to undergo unnecessary surgery (out of fear of cancer). In 2014 alone, four women in Connecticut had their breasts and ovaries removed after learning of mutations in their BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes not clearly linked to increased cancer risk.

Tajikistan will increase the minimum wage from January 2013, Asia-Plus reports. This is stipulated by a decree signed by President Emomali Rahmon. According to the decree, this indicator will be increased two and a half times: from 80 to 200 somoni (from 16 to 40 dollars). In addition, the decree raises salaries for public sector employees. Thus, teachers' salaries are raised by 60 percent (in particular, a teacher of the highest category will receive 500 somoni / about one hundred dollars from September 1 this year. Rakhmon increased the salaries of cultural workers by 50 percent. Thus, the head of the library will receive 400 somoni (about $83) from September 1. Finally, doctors' salaries will increase by 40 percent. In particular, the chief doctor of a hospital will receive an average of 890 somoni (about $185) (including bonuses). The decree also increases scholarships (by 50 percent) and pensions (by 30 percent). To implement those provisions of the decree, which will come into force already this year, additional budget funds in the amount of several hundred million somoni (100 million somoni is about 20 million dollars) will be needed in the remaining months until the end of the year.

According to preliminary data, Sergei Shavrin, a United Russia candidate and retired FSB officer, is leading in the by-election to the State Duma in the 199th Preobrazhensky district, Interfax reports. With just over 5 percent of the votes counted, Shavrin gained 36.2 percent. Vladimir Kvachkov, accused in the assassination attempt on the head of RAO UES of Russia, who also ran in this district, is still in second place with 28.89 percent of the votes. State Duma by-elections were also held on Sunday in Moscow's 201st Universitetsky District. Here, according to preliminary data, the United Russia candidate, director Stanislav Govorukhin, is also in the lead with 39.4 percent of the vote. Self-nominated writer Viktor Shenderovich is in second place with 17.8 percent after processing about 5 percent of ballots. Recall, the 25 percent turnout threshold in the 201st and 199th districts was already overcome by 4 p.m. Sunday. Seventeen candidates competed for two seats in the country's legislative assembly. In order to be elected to the State Duma, they need to win a simple majority of votes.

The old-age retirement age should remain the same for representatives of small indigenous minorities of the North. This was stated by Russian President Vladimir Putin in his address to Russians on Wednesday, August 29. The head of state also spoke in favor of preserving benefits for miners, workers of hot shops, chemical industries, liquidators of the Chernobyl accident and a number of categories of citizens. "I consider it fundamental to retain for a transitional period, until the completion of transformations in the pension system, all federal benefits in effect as of December 31, 2018. I mean benefits for real estate and land taxes," Putin added. Taking into account the amendments proposed by the president, the retirement age for men and women will increase by five years: from 60 to 65 and from 55 to 60, respectively. However, mothers with many children will be entitled to early retirement. With three children - for three years, with four - for four. For those Russian women who have five or more children, the retirement age will remain the same. In 2017, families of residents of the Far North, leading a traditional nomadic way of life, were legally allowed to adopt orphans. Previously, the rules contained a mandatory requirement for all adoptive parents to have a permanent place of residence. box@2173840

Hackers attacked British government websites in retaliation for the fact that London prevents Julian Assange's departure to Ecuador and is going to extradite him to Sweden, where he is awaiting trial. This is reported by the TV channel Sky News. The target of the cyberattack were the sites of the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister, as well as the Ministry of Labor and Pensions. The Ministry of Justice said its site was working intermittently. Other sites resisted the attack. Members of the hacker group Anonymous tweeted about the "Let's Free Assange" action on the evening of August 20. They constantly updated their microblog followers about their successes. News about cyberattacks appeared with the hash tag #OpFreeAssange. Hackers from the US, UK, Brazil, Chile and Indonesia promised to carry out new actions against the authorities of the United Kingdom and Sweden. Julian Assange, who since 2007 published secret documents of the US government, is accused in Sweden of sexual offenses and by the decision of the British court should be extradited to this country. Assange himself claims that the case against him is fabricated and is just a pretext to extradite him to Washington. To avoid extradition, Assange is hiding in the Ecuadorian embassy in London. Ecuador has agreed to grant him political asylum, but the British authorities prevent him from leaving the country and threaten to detain him if he tries to leave the embassy building.

The mayor of the town of Kandalaksha, located in the Murmansk region, Nina Varlamova, has been killed, Interfax reported on the morning of December 17, citing a source in the city's law enforcement agencies. The criminal, according to the agency's source, attacked Varlamova on Komsomolskaya Street, stabbed the mayor in the neck and fled. Varlamova died on the way to the hospital. Employees of the city internal affairs department detained an unemployed local resident on suspicion of an attack on the mayor. According to one of the versions, the detainee was previously acquainted with Varlamova and disliked her. According to the interlocutor of the agency, the man was trying to get an increased pension from the mayor. An officer of the Criminal Investigation Department of the Russian Interior Ministry flew to Kandalaksha to investigate the crime, a representative of the city's law enforcement agencies said, declining to disclose any other details of the incident. Varlamova won the 2007 mayoral election in Kandalaksha. The previous head of the city administration, Alexander Vikhorev, was the subject of a criminal case of bribery and was sentenced to a 2.5-year suspended sentence.

Almost half of Russian families (48.2 percent) admitted that they have enough money only for food and clothes, and durable consumer goods (for example, for a smartphone, refrigerator, furniture and so on) are no longer available, reports RBC, owned by Grigory Berezkin, citing a Rosstat report on the distribution of households by assessment of financial situation for the fourth quarter of 2018. Only 49.8 percent of families found money for food and clothing. Young families, among them 59.2 percent cannot afford durable goods, and families of non-working pensioners (57.9 percent) are most in need. Almost 15 percent of Russian families have enough money only for food, buying clothes and paying for housing and utilities services already causes difficulties. The largest number of such families is among families with many children - 28.3 percent, as well as among families of non-working pensioners - 30.4 percent. In the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District, the absolute majority (100 percent) of households stated that they do not have enough money even for clothes. In the Novosibirsk Oblast the share of such families is 41.3 percent, in the Orel Oblast - 39 percent, in Udmurtia - 34.9 percent. According to experts, people who have enough money only for food and clothes are already in the consumer risk zone. A small consumer shock - a breakdown of equipment or a delayed salary - forces them to intensify their savings. Earlier it was reported that in the last six months about 40 percent of Russians began to save more on food and non-food items. Only two percent of respondents managed to reduce the savings regime.

Oil prices will rise to 60-65 dollars per barrel in the medium term due to OPEC's decision to freeze oil production. This opinion, as TASS reports, was expressed on Wednesday, January 11, by Russian Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology Sergey Donskoy. "Agreements on freezing will allow to balance the world market: additional oil will stop coming for some time, and the growing demand for raw materials will compensate for the current surplus of 1-1.5 million barrels per day," explained the head of the Ministry of Natural Resources. According to Donskoy, oil will rise to the level of 60-65 dollars in 2017-2018. He also said that in the first half of 2017 the reduction in oil production by Russian companies should amount to 2.7 percent. Earlier on January 11, the World Bank in its report "Global Economic Prospects-2017" improved the forecast for the cost of oil in 2017 from 50 to 55 dollars per barrel. The average price of three oil grades (Brent. WTI and Dubai), according to analysts, will increase by 35.2 percent compared to 2016. In 2018, fuel will rise in price by another 8.4 percent, in 2019 - by 4.6 percent. On January 10, it became known that the reduction of oil production in Russia within the framework of agreements with OPEC is faster than planned. In the first nine days of 2017, it amounted to 1.517 million tons per day (11.105 million barrels). Thus, production relative to October 2016 (then OPEC reached preliminary agreements to reduce production) decreased by 142 thousand barrels per day. At the same time, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said in December that the reduction in production in January 2017 will amount to 50-100 thousand barrels per day. In total, the country should reduce production by 300 thousand barrels per day. The agreement was reached between Russia and OPEC countries in early December. It was preceded by an agreement signed at the OPEC summit in Vienna, where the cartel members pledged to reduce production by 1.2 million barrels per day.

In the east of Moscow, a passenger car flew into a public transportation stop and hit several people. One of them died. This was reported by TASS on Sunday, October 2, citing a source in law enforcement agencies. Three more people, including a child, were injured. The accident occurred at the intersection of Green Avenue and 1st Vladimirskaya Street. Ambulance, rescuers and police are working at the scene. Agency "Moscow" also reports about the accident on the 1st Vladimirskaya Street, but according to its information the Hyundai car hit pedestrians on the "zebra". In July, a VAZ car hit a pensioner and her seven-year-old grandson at a bus stop in Domodedovo near Moscow. The woman and the boy were hospitalized with injuries.

President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko demanded from doctors to stop complaining about modest earnings. This, as BelTA reports, the head of state said during a visit to the Republican Scientific and Practical Center of Neurology and Neurosurgery. "Stop crying that our doctors are poor, poor, so-and-so. It is time for doctors to give results," the president emphasized. According to him, the Belarusian healthcare system will be optimized by 2015, while the salaries of medical workers will increase. "Yes, we'll raise salaries, optimize, remove unnecessary things, but there will be demand. Both teachers and doctors will be in iron demand," said Lukashenko. He noted that the wages of doctors may increase, including through the export of medical services, but not to the detriment of the population of Belarus. According to "Interfax," the president also demanded to ensure the continuity of generations in the health care system and not to prevent young specialists from working. "In medical terms, if you clog the vessels, a blood clot is formed, and this is death," summarized the head of state. Last autumn, deputy head of the main department of the organization of medical care to the population of the Ministry of Health Liudmila Zhilevich said that the size of salary is secondary for Belarusian doctors. She referred to the data of questionnaires of young specialists (it was not specified how many people participated in the study). In them, the doctors admitted that they wanted, first of all, to realize themselves as professionals. Moreover, the respondents, according to Zhilevich, put the salary "almost in the last place. Meanwhile, the Belarusian media have previously repeatedly written about the difficult situation in health care. In particular, it was reported that due to the lack of staff and low wages, many doctors are forced to work at one and a half or two rates. At the same time, according to the National Statistics Committee of the Republic, the average salary of doctors amounted to just over Br6 million ($696) in December 2012. The average nominal salary (without deduction of taxes and pension contributions) in the country did not exceed $542 for the same period.

The Perm Territory Court has upheld the sentence of 64-year-old labor veteran Igor Troshev, convicted for poppy growing in his vegetable garden. This is reported by TASS. According to lawyer Egor Mikhailov, the prosecution insisted on changing the category of the crime to a less serious one in order to recognize the crime as medium gravity. In this case, the pensioner could be released from punishment on non-rehabilitating circumstances. The defense objected to this, as the option proposed by the prosecutor implied recognition of guilt by the convicted, while Troshev insists on complete innocence. The veteran plans to file a cassation appeal to the Presidium of the Perm Territory Court and appeal the previous court decisions. Igor Troshev received a year's suspended sentence for a poppy that grew on his plot. He was found guilty under Article 231 of the Criminal Code ("Illegal cultivation of plants containing narcotic drugs"). The man was accused of growing 467 poppy bushes in his vegetable garden this summer, which allegedly threatened the safety and health of the population. Troshev said the plant appeared after he filled the beds with new soil. Initially, the prosecutor demanded that the pensioner be sentenced to three years in prison. The court took into account that Troshev is a labor veteran and his wife has a disability.

The funds to be managed by the Rosfinagency should remain state-owned, and all income derived from them should be credited to the Reserve Fund and the National Welfare Fund. Thus, there is no question of "appropriation" of funds or "privatization" of funds. Sergey Storchak, Deputy Minister of Finance of Russia, wrote about this in an article for the Vedomosti newspaper. The material is published on the publication's website. Earlier, the draft law on Rosfinagentstvo was criticized by deputies of the State Duma. In particular, they did not like the fact that the Ministry of Finance proposed to make the structure a commercial organization and create it in the form of a JSC. Thus, deputy Oksana Dmitrieva from Just Russia said that the creation of a certain JSC is an attempt to "steal the treasury," and CPRF member Boris Kashin called the bill "a dead cat dug up in the yard of the Ministry of Finance and thrown into the State Duma." Storchak explained that, in turn, the Rosfinagency will receive money from the state for management services, which is already provided for in the law adopted in the first reading. In addition, the state has previously approved a list of assets for the placement of funds and established the maximum shares of certain assets in the portfolio of funds. The Ministry of Finance will also be able to limit these parameters depending on the market prospects. As a result, Storchak concludes, the probability that the state funds will be invested in unreliable securities or "their own offices" is excluded. The funds will be invested in the shares of leading issuers, and in Russia only a few "blue chips" will receive such status, said the deputy finance minister. "Many commentators for some reason do not know these rules, although all the decisions have long been published," Storchak added. According to him, Rosfinagency employees should not be officials, as their functionality is closer to the work of investment bank specialists. At the same time, the official noted, the Central Bank is not suitable for this role, as there will be a conflict of interest between the issuer of state currency and the manager of state debt. The bill on Rosfinagency was adopted in the first reading on January 26. In February, the second reading should take place, to which the deputies plan to prepare amendments. Thus, it is assumed that the State Duma Committee on Budget and Taxes will propose to fix in the law that Rosfinagency should be 100 percent owned by the state. In turn, the Ministry of Finance will propose to make the structure a non-public corporation rather than an open joint-stock company. It is assumed that Rosfinagency will be authorized to manage the Reserve Fund and the National Welfare Fund (NWF). The volume of the former is 2.6 trillion rubles, and the latter - 2.7 trillion. The institution may also receive five trillion rubles worth of Russia's public debt and citizens' pension savings that have not been transferred to non-state pension funds. The total amount of funds of the so-called "hush money" is 1.4 trillion rubles.

On January 21, the Bank of Russia revoked the license of Makhachkala bank Express. This is reported in the materials on the regulator's website. The reasons for the license revocation are not specified. January 8, "Express" suspended services to individuals due to restrictions imposed by the Central Bank. As the media reported at the time, the regulator imposed restrictions on the bank's acceptance of deposits from the population. Timur Omarov, Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of Express, said that the Central Bank's order actually paralyzed the work of the financial organization, for which servicing individuals is the main business. Then the top manager assured that the revocation of the license is out of the question. According to him, the bank intends to challenge the decision of the Central Bank and the relevant process has already been launched. A day later, the bank's website published information on how to obtain insurance payments for deposits up to 700 thousand rubles (deposits exceeding this amount are not compensated by the Deposit Insurance Agency). As of December 1, 2012, Express ranked first in terms of assets in the region and 238th in Russia. The volume of individual deposits at the same time amounted to about 5.6 billion rubles. The financial organization is included in the deposit insurance system. In November-December last year revoked the licenses of three Dagestani banks - Trust Bank, Derbant-Credit and Transenergobank. A little earlier, the media reported that Rosfinmonitoring had discovered a large number of "laundry banks" and "cash-and-carry sites" in the North Caucasus Federal District. The Dagestani media linked the revocation of licenses from Dagestani banks to the inspections carried out by seconded officers of the Temporary Operational Grouping of Troops.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has refused to allocate the fourth tranche of the loan to Ukraine before the election to be held in early January 2010. According to acting Ukrainian Finance Minister Ihor Umanskyy, quoted by UNIAN, the issue of the last tranche of the loan will not be resolved before the New Year. "In a few weeks after the Christmas New Year holidays, the fund will return to consider the possibility and timing of arrival," Umansky specified. Earlier, the Ukrainian government asked the IMF to soften some of the fund's requirements while continuing cooperation. Ukrainian Prime Minister Yuliya Tymoshenko said that the negotiations were going well and Kiev had chances to receive the tranche by the end of 2009. At the same time, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Hryhoriy Nemyrya, who handed over Ukraine's letter to the IMF, claimed that if the IMF refuses, Ukraine will face a difficult time. "The next three months will be decisive," Nemyrya said, declining to say whether there would be a default in Ukraine if the IMF does not disburse funds. On December 10, The New York Times quoted its sources as saying that the IMF had refused to release the fourth tranche of a stabilization loan to Ukraine before the January 2010 elections. On December 23, the IMF is expected to make an official statement on the continuation of cooperation with Ukraine. In 2008, the IMF opened a credit line of 16.5 billion dollars for Ukraine. Three tranches - for 4.5, 2.8 and 3.3 billion dollars - have already been taken by Kiev. Some of the funds were spent on reducing the budget deficit, some on paying for gas, and some on stabilizing the country's economy. It was initially expected that Ukraine would receive the fourth tranche of 3.5 - 3.8 billion dollars back in mid-November. However, Prime Minister Yuliya Tymoshenko and President Viktor Yushchenko failed to agree on a common policy. In particular, the Ukrainian president believes that IMF loans are harmful for the country's economy as they drive Ukraine into a debt hole. The IMF earlier reported that it does not support some steps of the Ukrainian government, in particular, the increase in minimum wages and pensions. This only increases the budget deficit, although the fund constantly demands its reduction.

Russians consider the timely payment and increase of salaries, pensions and scholarships to be the main achievement of Dmitry Medvedev as president. This opinion was expressed by 14 percent of participants in a sociological survey conducted by the Public Opinion Foundation. At the same time, only three percent of respondents noted the Russian president's efforts to fight corruption. Medvedev has called reducing corruption in Russian government bodies one of his main tasks as president, and the decree on anti-corruption measures was one of his first decrees. Medvedev also spoke about fighting corruption during his last address to the country's parliament in November 2009. Three percent of Russians also named Medvedev's actions to solve economic problems and strengthen stability in the country as his main successes. The reform of the Interior Ministry, which the president announced at the end of 2009, was mentioned by only one percent of respondents. Among Medvedev's main merits, Russians named the resolution of social problems of various segments of the population (8 percent of respondents) and the president's foreign policy activities (7 percent of respondents), including the resolution of the gas conflict with Ukraine and participation in the Georgian-South Ossetian conflict. 53 percent of respondents found it difficult to answer the question about President Medvedev's main achievements. According to the survey, Russians consider inflation, rising tariffs and food prices to be Medvedev's main failures. Eight percent of respondents agree with this viewpoint. 6 percent of Russians named the growth of unemployment as the main drawback, 5 percent noted low salaries and their untimely payment, the same number of respondents considered Medvedev's blunder to be the general decline in the economy. Fifty-seven percent of respondents found it difficult to answer the question about the main shortcomings of Medvedev's presidency. Overall, slightly less than half of those polled - 46 percent - believe that Medvedev has had more achievements than blunders during his two years in office. 14 percent say the opposite, and 40 percent could not answer this question. The poll on the attitude of Russians to Dmitry Medvedev's performance as president of Russia was conducted on March 13-14, 2010 in 44 constituent entities of the Russian Federation, and 2000 people took part in it.

A United Airlines pilot in the US had to turn the plane around halfway through the flight because of a passenger who was enraged by a ban on yoga on board. The crew of the aircraft, flying from Honolulu to Narita Airport, failed to calm down the troublemaker, who shouted at flight attendants and pushed his wife, the Independent reported. During the food distribution, the 72-year-old man got up from his seat and said he didn't want to eat and would rather do yoga and meditate in the back of the plane. Flight attendants tried to persuade him to return to his seat, but to no avail. Then his wife joined the persuasion, she tried to seat her husband and calm him down. But seeing that the wife and the crew were at loggerheads, the passenger became even more angry and pushed her away. That's when the Marines, who happened to be among the passengers, rushed to the rescue. The debauchee saw that he was surrounded, became even more enraged and tried to head-butt and bite them.  He shouted that there was no god and threatened to kill everyone. Once in federal prison after the plane returned to Honolulu, the frustrated yogi wet himself and tried to lay hands on himself, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Darren Chin. U.S. Judge Kevin Chan gave the troublemaker a chance to walk free on $25,000 bail and under a series of conditions, including not leaving the Hawaiian island of Oahu and being evaluated by psychiatrists. The judge denied the detainee's request to return home to South Korea because he would have had to be allowed back on the plane. As it turned out later, the Korean farmer first flew to Hawaii, where he and his wife decided to celebrate their 40th wedding anniversary. The retiree had recently taken up yoga to learn how to relax and calm down better, but during his vacation he suffered from insomnia - he didn't sleep for 11 days.

Double-decker buses have appeared on the streets of Moscow, which will run on sightseeing routes 10 kilometers long within the Garden Ring, RIA Novosti reports. The buses are supplied to the city by the company City Sightseeing - the leading operator of double-decker sightseeing buses in the world, which run in 100 cities in 29 countries. According to Sergey Shpilko, Chairman of the Tourism Committee of the capital, Moscow became the last European capital where the service of city excursions on double-decker buses of City Sightseeing appeared. According to him, the appearance of such buses is not only an important step towards the development of tourism and recreation industry, but also "a signal to the tourist market that Moscow has turned its face to the guests of the capital". The first three double-deckers went on the route on August 25, it is planned that by the end of the year there will be five such buses. The duration of the route is about an hour, the buses depart from Bolotnaya Square. The ticket for the excursion is bought once and is valid for 24 hours, i.e. you can leave the bus on the way and get on it again an unlimited number of times. A regular ticket will cost 600 rubles. The cost of a trip for pensioners and children from three years will make 400 rubles, students will have to pay 300, and participants of the Great Patriotic War, disabled people and children up to three years old will go free of charge. Buses will run on routes from 10:00 to 18:00 on weekdays and from 10:00 to 19:00 on weekends and holidays with an interval of 20 minutes. There will also be evening tours that will begin at 7:30 p.m. and at 8 p.m.

The MAN Wagon Union doubledeckers in Moscow have a sliding roof and windows on the second floor. They have the same design as the models for Germany and Northern Europe, apparently due to climatic conditions.

The mayor of Moscow Sergey Sobyanin has introduced a bill to the Moscow City Duma to support Muscovites over 50 years old within the framework of the pension reform. This is reported on the official portal of the Mayor and the Government of the capital. According to the document, in Moscow it is proposed to retain all existing benefits for the citizens upon their reaching the threshold of retirement age, which existed before the reform, that is, for women after 55 years and for men after 60 years. In particular, for them will still be free travel in public transport, except cabs, as well as the manufacture and repair of dentures. In addition, non-working Muscovites of this age category will be able to continue to receive vouchers to sanatoriums with reimbursement of the cost of travel to the place of rest. Citizens with the titles "Veteran of Labor" or "Veteran of Military Service" will pay only 50 percent of the cost of utilities and living in an apartment, receive monthly compensation for telephone costs and a monthly cash supplement. The bill provides additional support measures for city residents aged 50 and older. For them free medical examination and professional training, education and advanced training are envisaged. In Moscow it is proposed to create a center for retraining and employment of residents who have reached the age of 50. In particular, under one of the city programs citizens of this age category will be taught the basics of entrepreneurship. If necessary, they can also receive targeted social assistance. These support measures are introduced for an unlimited period of time and will apply to all Moscow residents who have reached the appropriate age. If adopted, the law "On additional measures to support the residents of the city of Moscow in connection with changes in federal legislation in the field of pension provision" will come into force as early as January 1, 2019.

On Wednesday, the State Duma passed in the second reading the bill "On guarantees to the Russian president who has ceased to fulfill his powers and his family members", supplementing it with a provision on partial limitation of immunity of the former head of state. According to "Interfax", the bill was supported by 275 deputies, "against" were 139 people, there were no abstentions. The document contains an amendment, according to which the former head of state may be deprived of immunity in case of initiation of a criminal case on the fact of committing a serious crime during the execution of presidential powers. In this case, the Prosecutor General makes a corresponding submission to the State Duma, which can support or reject it by a simple majority of votes. In case of a favorable decision, the issue should be submitted to the Federation Council. If both or one of the chambers does not support the prosecutor general's submission, the former president cannot be held criminally liable. Valery Grebennikov, deputy chairman of the Duma Committee on State Construction, who made a report on the bill, recalled that the document was adopted in the first reading last December. At that time, the main disagreement concerned the issue of the former president's family composition, i.e. the deputies proposed to clarify this notion. When preparing the document for the second reading, Grebennikov noted, amendments were made taking into account the proposals of deputies. According to the bill, the concept of "family of the former president" should be interpreted in accordance with the family and housing codes of the Russian Federation. Grebennikov also noted that pension provision for the family members of the deceased former president will be carried out in accordance with the legislation on pensions.

Tour operator Sunmar offered travelers week-long tours to Costa Brava in Spain for 11.4 thousand rubles per person. This is reported by the site Piratesru, which specializes in finding inexpensive offers for tourists. The action is valid for double accommodation. Thus, for two people the cost of the tour is 22.9 thousand rubles. Departure is scheduled for February 6, the return flight - on February 13. The cost of the trip includes flight Moscow - Barcelona - Moscow, accommodation in a four-star hotel H TOP Platja Park, medical insurance. Transfer to the hotel is paid separately. Russian citizens need a Schengen visa to visit Spain. In a recent study by the consulting company BAV Consulting and the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, Spain took first place in the ranking of countries that are most suitable for traveling alone. Travelers surveyed by experts noted Spain's rich culture, diverse nature and cuisine. In 2014, it was visited by 65 million tourists from all over the world.

Journalists have learned about the content of part of the memoirs of former US President George W. Bush Jr. This is reported on Thursday, October 28, on the website Drudge Report, whose employees have gained access to the book. Officially, the book "Decision Points" ("Decision Points") will go on sale in the homeland of the former president on November 9. It is known that the book will have 14 chapters, the first of which, "Quitting" ("Quitting"), begins with the words: "It was a simple question: 'Can you remember the last day you didn't have a drink?'". The chapter "Day of Fire" deals with the September 11 attacks. George W. Bush said he ordered the downing of the hijacked planes at the time and initially thought that the airliner headed for the White House that crashed over Pennsylvania was actually shot down by the U.S. Air Force. Other chapters in the book that deal with difficult periods of his presidency include "Katrina," which recounts the rescue operation after the hurricane in New Orleans in 2005, and "Financial Crisis," in which Bush touched on the latest economic problems in the world. The current crisis is believed to have been caused by the U.S. mortgage crisis, which began during George W. Bush's second term in 2007. As journalists have noted, the 43rd US president often found in faith an escape from difficulties at work. In the chapter "Stem Cells" George W. Bush tells about his conversations with Pope John Paul II, who suffered from Parkinson's disease. Although the pontiff's disease could be cured using stem cells, he "implored" Bush to veto a law that allowed cellular material to be obtained by destroying embryos. The former US president recalls later praying for the health of ABC journalist Peter Jennings, a cancer patient, at the funeral of John Paul II. The anchor died after a long illness three months after the pope's death in 2005. Overall, journalists believe Bush paid very little attention to criticizing his actions. Also, the former president did not touch on the policies pursued by his successor, Barack Obama. Drudge Report editors expressed the opinion that "Decision Points" will be "strikingly personal." They quote a politician close to Bush as saying, "The president will come across as strong ... and at peace with the decisions he has made." October 25, it became known that George W. Bush will give a TV interview for the first time since his departure from the post of president in 2008. It will be timed to coincide with the release of his memoirs and will appear on the air on November 8.

Russian President Dmitry Medvedev compared the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, when passenger planes hijacked by al-Qaeda terrorists crashed into buildings in New York and Washington, D.C., to Georgia's military action in South Ossetia on August 8, 2008, RIA Novosti reported Friday, September 12. "For Russia, August 8, 2008 is almost like September 11 for the United States," President Medvedev said. The president made the statement in the exhibition center of Moscow's GUM, speaking at a meeting of the Valdai international discussion club, whose members include political scientists, experts and journalists from Russia and many foreign countries. "This is an absolutely accurate comparison, as applied to Russian realities," Medvedev emphasized, adding that such a comparison was made by one of the club's participants. "All mankind has learned many lessons from September 11, and I would like the world to learn lessons from August 8 as well," the Russian president said. According to Medvedev, the security of the existing world requires serious intervention of "all constructive forces," otherwise no one is insured that Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili "will not lose his mind and will not repeat what happened." The Russian Federation's operation in the South to force Georgia to peace (August 8-12) ended with Russia recognizing the independence of the republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. During the fighting in the zone of the Georgian-Ossetian conflict 64 servicemen were killed on the Russian side. This figure was given by Deputy Chief of the Russian General Staff Anatoly Nogovitsyn at a briefing on August 20. The South Ossetian leadership earlier stated that 1492 people (residents of Tskhinvali and its suburbs) were killed during the storming of Tskhinvali. Recall that on September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda terrorists hijacked four passenger planes, two of which were aimed at the World Trade Center towers in Manhattan, one at the Pentagon building, and another crashed in Pennsylvania. The terrorist attacks killed about three thousand people. The exact number of victims has not been established until now. On the eve, on the day of the seventh anniversary of the terrorist attacks, US presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain declared a truce in the political struggle, and US President George W. Bush at the Pentagon participated in the opening ceremony of the memorial to the victims.

Law enforcement officials are investigating the circumstances of a conflict in the village of Osinki, Bezenchuksky district, Samara region, as a result of which a teenager was injured, according to the website of the Main Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia in the region. According to the report, late in the evening of April 12, a noisy company of minors gathered on the territory of the settlement school. A pensioner living in the neighborhood, repeatedly made remarks to young people, to which they did not respond. After that, according to the investigation, the 55-year-old man took out a hunting rifle, approached the schoolchildren and shot once in the air, and the second - under the feet of one of the teenagers. As a result of the conflict, a schoolboy born in 1999 was wounded in the legs. He was taken to the central district hospital, where he was diagnosed with "multiple gunshot wounds to the soft tissues of both lower extremities." According to police, the shotgun is officially registered to the pensioner. At present, the police continue to clarify the circumstances of the incident.

The Chilean national team defeated Australia in the first round match of Group B at the World Cup in Brazil. The meeting ended with the score 3:1 in favor of the South Americans. Chilean forward Alexis Sanchez scored on 12 minutes, and two minutes later Jorge Sampaoli doubled the lead. In the 35th minute, Australia's Tim Cahill scored with an accurate header, but Chile scored another goal in stoppage time through Jean Bosejour. Thanks to the win, Chile moved up to second place in Quartet B, where in another match the Netherlands defeated Spain 5-1 and took the first position with the best goal difference. In the second round, the Dutch will play the Australians and the Spanish will face the Chileans. Both meetings will be held on June 18.

The freezing of pension savings in 2015 will slow down the pace of development of the non-state pension funds (NPF) industry. This was stated by Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia Vladimir Chistyukhin at the XII International Banking Forum, ITAR-TASS reports. "The situation we have today will slow down the pace of development of this industry to a certain extent. But it does not say that the industry is in stagnation or should be completely closed," he commented. At the same time, the deputy chairman found it difficult to give a forecast on how the market will be affected by the complete withdrawal of the mandatory funded pension. Speaking about the impact on the financial market of a possible refusal of the funded component, he replied that "the under-receipt of pension savings should not affect this market". Chistyukhin suggested to continue the conversation on this topic after the government makes a final decision on this issue. In 2014, the government imposed a moratorium on funded contributions. As a result, the funded part of the pension was directed to the pay-as-you-go system. In early August, the government decided to extend the moratorium for 2015. The government's social bloc, in particular Labor Minister Maxim Topilin and Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, proposes to abolish funded pensions altogether and make the pension system fully solidary. The moratorium on the formation of pension savings, as well as plans to abolish funded pensions, are met with serious objections in the government's economic bloc and the expert community.

Imports of frozen broilers and chicken hams from the United States to Russia fell by 34 percent to 47.2 thousand tons in the first quarter of 2014. This is reported in the monthly report of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, ITAR-TASS reports. The department notes that the sharp decline in supplies began in February 2014. If in January 2014 imports of hams from the U.S. fell by 8 percent to 20.7 thousand tons against the reporting period, in February by 52 percent to 9.88 thousand tons. Shipments of chicken meat from America in March 2014 decreased by 41 percent, to 16.6 thousand tons, compared to 28.2 thousand tons in March 2013. In addition, imports of chicken meat from the U.S. in the first quarter of 2014 were also reduced by Lithuania, China, Ghana and Kazakhstan. The U.S. Department of Agriculture believes that lower sales in these countries will be offset by increased shipments to Georgia, Angola, Turkey and Mexico. U.S. frozen broiler exports to the rest of the world are expected to grow 2 percent to 3.39 million tons in 2014, up 1 percent to 3.43 million tons in 2015. In 2013, 415 thousand tons of frozen broilers and hams were imported into Russia, with 65 percent (266 thousand tons) coming from the United States. The other part was imported from Brazil, Ukraine, France, and the Netherlands. The Federal Customs Service estimates imports of American chicken to Russia in 2013 at 337 million dollars.

Gagarinsky court of Moscow has sentenced Yury Deryaga, a leading advisor of the Department of Housing and Utilities of the Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian Federation, who was found guilty of fraud, to 10 years in colony. This was reported by the Interfax news agency on May 14. In addition to imprisonment, Deryaga was sentenced to a fine of one million rubles. After serving the term, his freedom will be restricted for two years. It is established that in the fall of 2011, Deryaga convinced an 80-year-old veteran of special services to take potent medications. These medications caused delirium, hallucinations and increased fatigue. After waiting for the pensioner's psyche to falter, Deryaga offered to help him protect himself from fraudsters. Under the pretext of ensuring the safety of property, the official persuaded the veteran to sign donation agreements for two apartments in Moscow, as well as a power of attorney to manage the deposit in the bank. According to Life News, in order to avoid disclosure of the scam, Deryaga put a guard on the pensioner, who did not let him leave the house. As a result of fraudulent actions, the veteran was damaged to the amount of 29 million rubles. After the loss of his property, he himself realized to contact the police.

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko will announce his nomination for a second presidential term on 2 February. This was stated to "Left Bank" by a source in the leadership of the faction of the "Petro Poroshenko Bloc" (BPP) in the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. "The President will announce the nomination for a second term on February 2. There will be a big forum to nominate a single candidate from democratic forces. There and will declare," he explained. Potential presidential candidates in Ukraine can submit documents for registration to the CEC until February 3 inclusive, reminded the interlocutor of "Left Bank". "As you know, Yulia Tymoshenko will declare her participation in the elections on the Day of Sobornosti on January 22 (in 1919 on this day was proclaimed the Act of reunification of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the West Ukrainian People's Republic into a single state - note "Lenta.ru"). Poroshenko will do it in early February," the BPP representative added. Ukrayinska Pravda reported on January 15 that Yuliya Tymoshenko would announce her candidacy for the election on January 22. According to the Left Bank source, the election campaign of the incumbent head of state will be based on the theme of obtaining a tomos on the autocephaly of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine (PCU), monetization of subsidies and raising pensions by 17-20 percent starting from March this year. At the same time, one of the leaders of the BPP faction admitted that there is no money in the treasury to increase pensions.  "Now we are looking for money, we think where to get it so that pensions will be raised," he added. The next presidential election in Ukraine will be held on March 31, 2019. The current head of state Petro Poroshenko has the right to run for a second term. According to the results of a poll conducted by the Institute of Analysis and Forecasting together with the analytical group "Socioprognoz", published on January 10, the current president occupies only the fourth line in the rating of possible candidates - he is ready to support 11.3 percent of those who will vote and have decided on their choice. The leader of the rating is Yulia Tymoshenko, 19.3 percent of respondents are ready to vote for her. Showman Volodymyr Zelensky is in second place (12.9 percent), while Yuriy Boyko rounds out the top three with 11.3 percent. Anatoliy Hrytsenko is in fifth place with 11.1 percent.

German police have discovered the largest private storehouse of weapons and ammunition in Germany in a 62-year-old pensioner in the town of Becherbach, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reports. The man, nicknamed "Gunpowder Kurt" by his neighbors, stored many pistols, automatic rifles, machine guns, ammunition, hand grenades, anti-tank grenade launchers, mines, and several old military vehicles in a shed. All 600 residents of Beherbach, who, as the police noted, were literally living on a powder keg all this time, were hastily evacuated due to the bomb threat. The territory of the town was cordoned off and closed to outsiders. With the help of special robots, sappers removed some of the explosives to a field nearby and carried out a controlled detonation. According to German media, we are talking about 50-70 kilograms of nitroglycerin. The rest of the weapons were taken to one of the military bases. It is noted that a few days earlier the police found directly in the apartment of the "powder Kurt" about 50 firearms and 50-60 thousand rounds of ammunition. With regard to the pensioner, his son and another man is under investigation. However, "Powder Kurt" remains at large. After the police searched his house, he had a seizure and was hospitalized in a hospital.

The Federation Council approved the government's proposed amendments to the second part of the Tax Code and the procedure for its enactment. As expected, the amendment to increase the profit tax in the regions by 5 percent was expected to cause the most controversy. The amendment should compensate for the losses of the constituent entities of the Federation from the abolition of the tax on housing and communal services. However, the senators agreed with the opinion of Konstantin Titov, chairman of the Budget Committee, who said that as a result of these changes, the constituent entities of the Federation "will not suffer any losses." According to him, "a five-percent surcharge has already been introduced in some municipalities," RIA "Novosti" reports.

The Tushino Court of Moscow has recognized the requirements of Aeroflot regarding the permissible size of flight attendants' clothing as legal. Thus the claim of flight attendant Irina Jerusalemskaya was rejected, reports "Interfax". "Today the court dismissed the civil suit," said court spokeswoman Ulyana Emmert. No violations of law were found in the actions of the air carrier. The plaintiff asked to recognize discriminatory and remove from the requirements for crew members one of the provisions. This clause defines the permissible height, weight and clothing size of flight attendants. Jerusalemskaya also wanted to recover one million rubles from the defendant as compensation for moral damages, as well as compensation for the withheld salary. The flight attendant claims that due to her non-compliance with the restrictions imposed, she was transferred to domestic flights, which led to a reduction in her salary. "Aeroflot has previously stated that in its personnel work the company adheres to the provisions of Russian law as well as the principles of 'equal opportunity employer.' "This implies a categorical rejection of discrimination against employees based on external data, age, race, gender, political and religious views," the carrier said in a statement. According to Vladimir Alexandrov, Aeroflot's deputy general director for legal and property issues, the plaintiff's arguments are a failed attempt to destabilize the situation within the collective. "We highly appreciate the work of our flight attendants and try to do everything possible to improve their working conditions. At the same time, the airline will continue to make high demands on the staff to maximize the comfort and safety of passengers," he emphasized. "Aeroflot is the leader of Russian civil aviation. The company was founded in 1923. It operates 191 airplanes. Subsidiary airlines are Rossiya, Aurora and Pobeda.

Before the inauguration of President George W. Bush, the American public was almost split in half in its opinion about the personality of the head of state and his role in the life of the country, CNN.com reported. The results of a telephone survey conducted on the eve of the ceremony by Gallup agency on behalf of CNN among 1007 people showed that 49 percent of them consider George W. Bush a "unifier" of the nation, and the same number are sure that thanks to him the society was "fragmented". As for the primary role the re-elected president should play, more than a third of respondents -- 34 percent -- believe the most important thing for him is to run the federal government well, 24 percent believe he should be a leader, and 20 percent believe he should be a good commander in chief. As for the inauguration itself, the majority of respondents, 54 percent, believe that the festivities on the occasion of Bush's inauguration should be held modestly because of the events in Iraq - the country is at war. 45 percent think the war is no cause for sadness. More than two-thirds of respondents, 69 percent, view the inauguration as a celebration of Bush's supporters rather than a celebration of democracy for all Americans. Even more respondents, 79 percent, believe that holding a lavish ceremony will not help resolve the political divisions in American society, and only 18 percent hope it will. Finally, 61 percent of respondents are of the opinion that it would be inappropriate to organize protests during the ceremony. Recall that the official ceremony of the re-elected president's assumption of office will be held on January 20, 2005. Bush Jr. will pronounce 35 words necessary according to the protocol, having put his hand on the Bible, published in 1767 and first used in 1789 - at the inauguration ceremony of George Washington. The presidential motorcade will then proceed down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House. It is expected that up to two hundred thousand guests gathered in the Capitol will be able to watch the ceremony, and hundreds of thousands more will see the parade route.

Argentina's national soccer team reached the final of the World Youth Soccer Championship in Canada. The reigning champions defeated Chile 3-0 in the semifinals. In the main match of the tournament, the Argentines will meet with the Czech Republic, a day earlier took the upper hand over the national team of Austria, reports the official website of FIFA. In the match against Chile, the Argentines opened the scoring in the 12th minute. Ever Banega first beat one opponent in the center of the field, then won a one-on-one battle with the second, then gave an accurate penetrating pass to Angel Di Maria. After the latter's shot, the ball, hitting the bar, bounced into the net. The position of the Chilean national team, which had not conceded a single goal at the tournament, was complicated when Gary Medel received a red card for roughness. In the 65th minute Maximillano Morales with a pass from the left flank found Claudio Jacob in the opponent's penalty area, who did not miss from close range. The final score of the match (3:0) was set by Morales himself in extra time. At the end of the game Chile were left with nine men when Dagoberto Currimilla was sent off for a second yellow card. The main troubles for the Argentines were the warnings of Jacob and team captain Matias Caisa. These players will not be able to play in the final. The Czech Republic-Argentina final and the match for third place Austria-Chile will be held on Sunday, July 22.

The head of the Bank of Russia, Elvira Nabiullina, complained that Russia lacks "long money" - for example, it is about the system of pension savings that would work for the economy. This is reported by RIA Novosti. The head of the regulator is convinced that it is impossible to achieve a developed system of "long money" without achieving low inflation, but this is not enough - in Russia must appear a whole layer of institutional investors who are interested in long-term investments. "If we talk about our joint work with the government, we mainly act as a mega-regulator there. We are also responsible for the development of the financial market and the emergence of 'long money' in the country. Indeed, we set ourselves the task of creating "long money" in the country," said the head of the Central Bank during a press conference. Elvira Nabiullina reminded that the Central Bank is in favor of introducing a system of individual pension capital. "This will increase the investment opportunities of the country. And not only the development of pension savings, but also the strengthening of non-state pension funds themselves," Nabiullina is sure. The Central Bank Chairman noted that stress tests by the regulator increase the level of confidence in financial organizations, including non-state pension funds (NPF) and long-term savings funds. Nabiullina believes that Russia will soon have a full-fledged "long money" industry.

A passport, presumably left by criminals, was found in a robbed jewelry store in St. Petersburg. This was reported by "Fontanka.ru" on October 2. The store of the chain "585" in the house 27 on Dybenko Street was robbed on October 1. Three masked criminals broke into the salon 15 minutes before closing time. One of the raiders pointed a Kalashnikov assault rifle at the guard and salesmen and ordered them to lie on the floor. Then the criminals smashed the showcases with hammers and stole ten trays of jewelry. The guard managed to press the alarm button without being noticed, but the raiders acted very quickly. They managed to take the stolen goods and fled in a Dodge Caravan. Arriving police officers found at the scene of the crime a passport in the name of a resident of Gatchina. According to one version, the document was accidentally dropped by one of the criminals. According to another version, the robbers deliberately planted the passport to mislead the police and cause trouble for the owner of the document. According to the channel "St. Petersburg", the salon "585" on Dybenko has been robbed three times in the last few years. The publication "My District Online" adds that a total of 23 raids on jewelry stores were committed in St. Petersburg from January to August 2012, and 33 raids in 2011. "Apparently, several groups are operating in the city," said Alexei Soloveichik, owner of one of the jewelry stores. He attributes what is happening to the inactivity of the police. Oleg Shishin, head of the department of operative-search part number 2 of the city's Main Department of the Interior Ministry, admitted that the number of robberies of jewelry salons in the city has increased sharply over the past two years. At the same time, the number of other robberies has decreased. Shishin cited poor organization of security guards as the reason for this: "As a rule, stores have a retired guard and two sales girls. In addition, he said that too active coverage of the topic in the media causes a wave of imitations: "Addicts saw in the news that jewelry stores are robbed every day - and let's go too!". Shishin also recalled that gambling halls were banned about two years ago. In his opinion, many criminals who used to rob gambling halls "retrained" in jewelry shops. Finally, another reason for the popularity of such robberies is that gold is easily marketable and its resale is difficult to trace. Gold stolen in St. Petersburg is exported to Moscow, and vice versa. There is also a large illegal jewelry sales market in Kostroma.

The first deputy head of the financial and economic department of the Russian Federal Penitentiary Service Svetlana Alekseeva has been detained in Moscow. This was reported to "Lenta.ru" on Wednesday, October 18, by the official representative of the Investigative Committee of Russia (ICR) Svetlana Petrenko. According to the version of the investigation, Alexeeva was an accomplice of the deputy director of the department Oleg Korshunov, accused of embezzlement of more than 160 million rubles. "At present, the necessary investigative actions are being carried out with her," Petrenko noted. According to the Investigative Committee, Alexeeva was deputy head of the logistics department of the Russian Federal Penitentiary Service. Deputy head of the FSIN Oleg Korshunov was detained on September 13. A criminal case was opened against him under Part 4 of Article 160 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Embezzlement on a large scale with the use of official position"). During the search, about four million rubles were seized from the defendant, as well as a collection of luxury watches and a Makarov service pistol. According to Lenta.ru's source, just a day before the arrest, Korshunov resigned from the service. In June, he wrote a report for retirement, after which he went on vacation. Korshunov, 54, had served as head of the FSIN's financial and economic department since 2012. Two years later, he was appointed by decree of Russian President Vladimir Putin to the post of deputy head of the agency.

A video of a robbery of a jewelry store in Hong Kong, during which jewelry worth five million Hong Kong dollars (40 million rubles) was stolen, has appeared online. This is reported by the South China Morning Post. The robbery took place on Wednesday, May 23. Around 19:00, two masked men broke into a jewelry store on the third floor of the shopping center. One of them immediately tried to open the showcase with a tool, while the other pulled out a knife and threatened employees and customers with it. After 14 seconds, the first raider removed the window glass and without delay began to fill the bag with jewelry. Among other things, he took a diamond, two necklaces, a couple of rings and a bracelet. Having cleaned out the store, the criminals fled with the loot. The robbery took only 27 seconds. Police failed to apprehend its participants on the same day and were still searching for them on Thursday. In 2017, it was reported that in London, a pensioner with an umbrella attacked armed robbers who broke the closed door of a jewelry store with axes and a sledgehammer. The criminals managed to escape.

On Wednesday, Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov will deliver a final report on proposed measures against non-statutory relations in the army during the Second All-Army Meeting of military officers, which is dedicated to army discipline and will be attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Among the proposals not heard before, the final document, according to the Kommersant newspaper, proposes to increase the age limit for officer service by five years. According to the Defense Ministry, this will help return the army to its former professionalism. Currently, officers up to the rank of colonel must retire at the age of 45, while colonels must retire at the age of 50. In other respects, the report prepared by Ivanov, according to Kommersant, repeats the proposals that have already been made. In particular, according to the newspaper, the head of the Defense Ministry will propose to transfer sergeants to contract service, to create disciplinary courts in the units, to return the brig and abolish disbats. The military refused to create a military police, which the prosecutor's office was fighting for control over, the newspaper notes. "Kommersant also recalls that in a letter the Defense Ministry sent to the president shortly after the incident with Private Sychev (he was beaten up by old servicemen, which was widely publicized), the military asked for an additional budget to be allocated to them, which would be used both to fight hazing and to improve the solvency of the Armed Forces. Thus, the money was proposed to be allocated to strengthen the Russian Defense Sport-Technical Organization, for bonuses for the ranks of company and officer-educators, for the salaries of contract sergeants and for moral incentives for servicemen with the badge "Excellent Officer of the Russian Army". In addition, the Defense Ministry proposed to establish a state order for the creation of artistic and literary works promoting military service. These proposals, if adopted, will cost 9.5 billion rubles in 2006, the newspaper notes.

Thirteen owners of plots in the gardening non-commercial partnership (SNT) "Alyoshkinskie Sady" in the Noginsk district of the Moscow region complained to the head of the region, to the prosecutor's office of Noginsk, as well as to the Public Chamber on the new chairman of the SNT Victor Seryshev. About it reports LifeNews. According to the dacha residents, Seryshev allows arbitrary behavior, and is also associated with the family of the oppositionist Alexei Navalny. The conflict began after fifteen owners of dachas illegally (according to the authors of the complaint) elected Seryshev as the new chairman of the SNT. "We knew nothing about the meeting. On August 1, the meeting was closed because it was unprofitable for Seryshev. He believes that someone is behind him, relatives support him, and said that in Noginsk there is someone from the leadership, who will cover for him," - said dacha dweller Nina Createleeva. According to the owners, the new chairman began to collect membership fees from them, which grew along with the exchange rate. And now the fee for a plot of land in the village, where dachas are owned by pensioners, including veterans of the Great Patriotic War, is nine thousand rubles. Members of the community point out that Seryshev has repeatedly hinted "at his acquaintance with influential people in the region." The owners believe that "the ideological inspirers of Seryshev are Navalny's relatives, specifically his mother-in-law," who, they claim, also lives in this SNT. Alexander Sheshko, the owner of one of the plots, said that Lev Sharov, the blogger's father-in-law, was the chairman of the audit committee in the settlement until his death.

Irkutsk rescuers opposed the idea of local pensioner Nikolai Lupynin, who intends to swim across Lake Baikal sitting in a barrel. Petr Us, chief state inspector for small vessels of the Irkutsk Region's Emergencies Ministry, told ITAR-TASS that if Lupynin launches the barrel, his unusual watercraft will be arrested. According to the agency's interlocutor, a barrel with a modern Diogenes inside would pose a threat to the safety of other types of water transportation. It is for security reasons that the barrel can be arrested. After that, Lupynin will be issued a fine. The pensioner from the village of Kultuk has already repeatedly told the authorities about his plans, but the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Irkutsk region refuses to issue him a permit to sail on Lake Baikal in the barrel. Recently it was reported that Lupynin had already settled all formalities with the rescuers - they told him to buy navigational aids and only then to set sail. However, as it has now become known, the inventor of the floating barrel does not want to take any devices with him, which contradicts the rules of navigation. Nikolai Lupynin has long ago planned his voyage. He has already completed the assembly of the barrel, all the parts for which he collected at the dump near the shores of Lake Baikal (the watercraft consists of plastic bottles, wood and foam plastic). Recently, the elderly extremeist has tested the barrel, but he was not satisfied with the results - the barrel does not behave well on the waves. In the near future he will modify the construction a little, getting rid of several kilograms of foam plastic. The 62-year-old traveler intends to try his cruise again on Monday, July 25.

State Duma deputy, LDPR leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky revealed the size of his pension. This is reported by RIA Novosti. "I have a 25 thousand pension," - admitted the politician during a meeting with the Commissioner for human rights Tatyana Moskalkova. Non-working pensioners with Moscow residence registration from January 1, 2018 began to receive three thousand rubles more, the pension reached 17.5 thousand. After indexation from January 1, 2018, the size of the average old-age pension in Russia amounted to 14 thousand 75 rubles. The leader of the LDPR at the end of 2017 earned 5.4 million rubles. According to the results of 2016, the income of the parliamentarian rose sharply: from 5.7 million at the end of 2015 to 79 million in 2016. On Sunday, May 13, it became known that the heroine of the meme "There is no money, but you hold on" raised the pension by 450 rubles.

Neurosurgeons at a Kemerovo hospital removed a 72-year-old Russian woman a tumor that had grown from the skull into the neck and occupied a large occipital space. This was told by the head of the neurosurgical department of the hospital Egor Kolotov in the Instagram-account of the institution. According to Kolotov, the danger of the operation was that the tumor was in front of the medulla oblongata, responsible for regulating basic survival functions and for controlling human movements. In this regard, it was necessary to remove the tumor very carefully, explained the doctor. It is noted that the patient is on the mend and "making plans for the future." Earlier, a pensioner from Moscow removed a scalp tumor 11 centimeters in diameter, which he treated with homeopathic remedies for two years. The patient came to the medical center with a "voluminous, protruding outside the head, formation". It is noted that the neoplasm caused "destruction of the parietal bone up to six centimeters in diameter".

Former Russian national team and CSKA Moscow defender Sergei Ignashevich posted a vacation photo on Instagram. In the photo Ignashevich is lying with his legs stretched out, and candy wrappers are lying next to him. The athlete accompanied the publication with the caption: "On retirement". Ignashevich announced the end of his soccer career on July 8. According to the footballer, if not for the 2018 World Cup, he would have finished his career earlier. Together with the Russian national team Ignashevich stopped one step away from the semifinals of the 2018 World Cup. In the match of the 1/4 finals, the Russians met with Croatia and lost in a penalty shootout (3:4). The athlete played for CSKA since 2004. During this time, he played 541 games for the Army Men and scored 46 goals.

Downtime in the economy due to Hurricane Sandy could result in a loss of $10 billion in regional GDP per day. This, as reported by the Daily Ticker, was stated by Ryan Sweet, senior economist at Moody's rating agency. However, he said the hurricane-related drop in output will be offset over the next few weeks. Peter Morici, a professor at the University of Maryland, estimates the economic damage from Sandy at 45 billion dollars. At the same time, Morici believes that "Sandy" will lead to an increase in GDP in some sectors, as many buildings will have to be repaired, and, therefore, building materials stores will significantly increase sales. CNBC writes about this. According to Moody's calculations, "Sandy" will negatively affect retail sales, employment, car sales, as well as the number of houses whose construction has begun. The agency notes that the Northeast accounts for 20 percent of U.S. auto sales and 10 percent of U.S. home construction. Citigroup's Oliver Chen specifies that Sandy could reduce retail store sales in November by three percent. Reuters notes that the hurricane could increase gasoline prices - the region is home to seven refineries with a capacity of 1.19 million barrels per day, seven percent of total U.S. production. Earlier on Tuesday it was reported that the direct damage from the hurricane is estimated at 20 billion dollars. A significant part of the losses will have to be compensated from the budgets of states and municipalities, which will have to pay for the restoration of infrastructure.

Residents of the village of Sholokhovsky in the Rostov region collected a "people's pension" for 95-year-old WWII veteran Raisa Shuvar, who fled the war in Donbass and has been living practically on the street for several years. This 161.ru was told by the woman herself. According to Shuvar, villagers constantly help her with food, and recently collected and brought eight thousand rubles. Sholokhovites promised to help her financially until she starts receiving an official Russian pension. "Now we are going around the offices and trying to get a temporary residence permit. Then we will apply for citizenship so that we can have a legal pension," she added. Raisa Shuvar was born in Russia, but then moved to Ukraine with her husband and changed her citizenship. She returned to Rostov region from Lugansk four years ago after the military conflict began in southeastern Ukraine. She told Ogonyok that she first lived here in a garage, in a refugee camp, and then settled in the Matronin Dom shelter in the village of Sholokhovsky. All this time the woman has been in the country in refugee status, but still cannot obtain Russian citizenship, without which it is impossible to claim a pension. She no longer receives any payments from Ukraine. Together with Shuvar, another Ukrainian veteran refugee, Elena Timofeeva, who lives in the same shelter, finds herself in a similar situation.

The Russian oil companies Rosneft, Lukoil, TNK-BP and Tatneft have entered the competition for the right to become sponsors of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. The Vedomosti newspaper reports that the above corporations have applied for the status of the Olympic Games sponsor in the "oil" category. According to the newspaper, Russian oil companies would like to become sponsors of the so-called "gold" category, that is, to spend at least one hundred million dollars to support the Olympics. As sponsors, the companies will get the right to use the Olympic symbols for six years, as well as become partners of the Russian team of the Games until 2016 and will be able to use this information in their advertising campaigns. In addition, by developing the Olympic infrastructure, for example, building gas stations on the Moscow-Don highway, the sponsor will be able to compensate its costs for the Olympics. Let us remind you that the first sponsors of the Sochi Games have already appeared. At the end of January 2009, the Olympic Organizing Committee signed sponsorship contracts with Rostelecom and Megafon. According to the publication, within six years they will pay the organizing committee 130 million dollars and provide communication services for the same amount. General partners of Sochi-2014 will be determined according to the tender until 2010. The total cost of organizing and holding the Olympics is estimated at $1.88 billion. Earlier it was reported that the government will pay a quarter of the organizers' expenses, while the organizing committee should earn 75 percent of the budget on its own. In March 2008, Lukoil already reported that it intends to build a network of 100 gas stations in the Southern Federal District using the symbols of the Olympic Games. It was also reported that Gazprom showed interest in sponsoring Sochi-2014.

In Moscow, a pensioner demanded that the trade union recalculate her pension and typed the request on a typewriter. The document was not accepted, according to the Ridus website. According to the publication, the chairman of the trade union of workers of the chemical industry in Moscow (Moskhimprofsoyuz) Vyacheslav Sapozhnikov demanded to send the appeal again, preparing it "in accordance with the generally accepted requirements for the execution of documents." It is specified that the pensioner's request was rejected because it was typed on a typewriter of the last century, which "creates great inconvenience in working with the letter". The pensioner complained to State Duma deputy Valery Rashkin. The latter wrote on his Facebook page that such treatment is boorishness and insolence. Users of the social network wrote in comments to the record that it should not have been necessary to demand a typed document from the pensioner. "All documents should be in a digital version. And in essence - of course, just shooed away. Could have typed the text on the computer themselves, print it out," the commentators decided. The Muscovite woman who typed the statement on a typewriter calls herself a working pensioner. She has been suing Moskhimprofsoyuz since 1999, seeking to have her pension credited. The Russian complains about "fictitious entries" in her work book, according to which she is listed "with an average monthly salary of zero rubles since April 1, 1999." According to Sapozhnikov, the pensioner has never worked for Moskhimprofsoyuz. In February, Omsk officials evicted Galina Abaskalova, a pensioner with a Soviet Union passport, from her only housing. They knew that she had no other housing and means. It is noted that the Omsk woman had been living with a Soviet Union passport for 27 years, as she had no money to pay off the fine for late replacement of the document.

The Russian Pension Fund (PFR) has become more active in suing companies for insurance contributions. The Vedomosti newspaper, owned by Demyan Kudryavtsev's family, has calculated that it filed 307,784 lawsuits in the first nine months of 2018. By the end of the year, according to expert estimates, the number of lawsuits involving the FIU may grow to 410,000. For comparison, 260,596 lawsuits were filed in 2017, and in 2016 there were only 37,564 such cases. As lawyers note, most of the lawsuits are for recovery of small fines (from 500 to 1,000 rubles) for failure to submit mandatory pension insurance reports in due time or errors in them. In the past, such fines were forcibly written off, but in 2017 the legislation changed, and now the FIU has to collect them in court. Even if the court costs exceed the amount of the fine. Earlier, the head of the Russian Pension Fund Anton Drozdov estimated that by raising the retirement age it will be possible to save about 90 billion rubles as early as 2019

Pavel Karolik, a resident of Homel, Belarus, has invented a device that helps to plant potatoes, as "Homel Vedomosti" reports on Tuesday, April 23. According to the inventor, he himself has already tried the potato planter in action and believes that it copes with its main task perfectly. Potato planter consists of two water pipes connected to each other on the principle of pliers. In one pipe it is necessary to throw a potato, and in the other - fertilizer (it is dosed with the help of a jumper installed in the design). The gardener only has to open the flaps of the pipes and sow the tubers into the prepared beds. "Such a device is very convenient for pensioners and those with back pain. There is no need to bend down to sow the field," said the interlocutor of the newspaper, who demonstrated the work of the potato planter directly in the yard of the editorial office of Gomelskiye Vedomosti. Karolik expressed hope that the potato planter would be of interest to industrial enterprises, which could take the invention of Gomel resident into production. The inventor suggested that the potato planter designed by him could be sold in agricultural goods stores. According to the newspaper, a similar device has already been invented at the Orel State Agricultural Academy. However, unlike Karolik's potato planter, it had several significant drawbacks. Now the manual potato planter is not produced, the patent for its invention expired in 1998. Potatoes are one of the main components of Belarusian cuisine. For example, this root vegetable is used to make draniki, dumplings, babka, drochena and many other treats. Belarusians' love for potatoes is often the subject of jokes.

Russian Labor Minister Maxim Topilin has not ruled out the return of the funded pension system in 2016. This is reported by TASS. "We proceed from the fact that in 2016 everything should work in the standard mode. As provided by the laws," the agency quotes him as saying. Topilin recalled that the decision to transfer funded contributions to the solidarity part was made for 2015. "In the course of preparation for the budget of the next cycle of 2016-2018, we will probably discuss this issue, but so far the decision has been made for a year," he added. On December 2, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a law that provides for the extension of the moratorium on the transfer of Russians' pension savings to non-state pension funds (NPFs) for 2015. In September 2013, citizens' pension savings in NPFs were frozen for 2014. 244 billion rubles were withdrawn from pension fund clients. The government promised to transfer these funds to non-state funds after their entry into the guarantee system. Earlier, the government's social bloc, in particular Labor Minister Maxim Topilin and Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, proposed to abolish funded pensions altogether and make the pension system fully solidary.

RAO UES and its subsidiary Mosenergo have started to receive the first claims for compensation for damage caused by power outages in Moscow and neighboring regions. According to lawyers, if a lawsuit is filed by every hundredth company or citizen out of those whose damage is actually provable, it will result in "25-30 million dollars in compensation" for RAO UES. As lawyer Igor Trunov told GAZETA.GZT.RU, he has already been approached by "three individuals and one organization". All of them expect to achieve the payment of compensation: both for the violation of "Mosenergo" contractual relations, and for moral damage. However, Trunov says, it will be quite difficult to satisfy these claims. Those wishing to receive compensation for business contracts not signed on the day of the accident will have to prove that the deal was disrupted precisely because of the power outage, and not because of the usual traffic jams, said Trunov. "It is possible to file a claim and to the store, in which on the day of the accident was bought spoiled product, - continued the lawyer. - But for this you will need a receipt and a certificate of referral to a doctor for the reason of poisoning." Even if after the blackout people suffered physical damage, for example, went to the hospital with heart or hypertensive attack after evacuation from the subway tunnels, the court can write off everything on a hot day and chronic diseases of the victim, Trunov believes. At the same time, the amount of compensation for moral damage in Russia is assessed by the judge himself. On average, the victim is unlikely to be able to count on more than 3 thousand rubles, writes "GAZETA.GZT.RU". Corporate lawsuits may cause much more trouble for RAO UES. Most companies insure their goods, and the legal services of insurers will try to compensate losses incurred at the expense of RAO UES to the maximum extent possible, says Andrei Knyazev, a member of the Moscow Bar Association. However, it will not be easy for legal entities to obtain compensation from RAO "UES" either. If 700 thousand dead chickens at the Petelinskaya poultry farm are strong evidence in court, then companies that produce a product that does not spoil as quickly as milk or meat, it will be more difficult to defend their position, says Knyazev. "It is almost impossible to prove damages, based on the hypothetical volume of transactions carried out," he believes. The Tula administration has already announced its intention to sue RAO UES. Governor Vyacheslav Dudka said that a special commission will be created in the region with the involvement of the prosecutor's office, which "will conduct the most thorough investigation of the losses incurred," after which a consolidated lawsuit will be prepared. On Thursday, Anatoly Chubais, head of RAO UES of Russia, said that all payments provided for by law to the structures and organizations affected by the energy crisis will be paid. According to him, the amount of compensation will be determined by "the relevant authorities." At the same time, Mosenergo, a subsidiary of RAO UES, said that its contracts with consumers do not provide for compensation payments in case of power supply disruptions. According to a representative of Mosenergo, the company sees no grounds for satisfying claims that may be filed by those affected by the energy crisis. It was also reported that consumers can expect compensation only if the power supply is not restored within 24 hours. The contracts with consumers state that power engineers are obliged to eliminate the malfunctions within this period, RAO UES said. Cascading power cuts in Moscow began around 11:00 Wednesday. RAO UES announced that power supply was fully restored by 14:00 Thursday.

Jack Abramoff, a prominent U.S. lobbyist with close ties to the Republican Party, was sentenced Wednesday by a U.S. federal court to five years and 10 months in prison, AP reported. Jack Abramoff, who was convicted of fraud in a deal to buy SunCruz Casinos casino ships, will not begin serving his sentence until after he testifies in a U.S. Senate corruption case. Abramoff and his business partner Adam Kidan, who was also convicted in the SunCruz Casinos fraud case, received the minimum terms allowed by law for such an offense in exchange for agreeing to testify about corruption in the highest political circles of the United States. The U.S. congressional corruption investigation in which Abramoff is expected to testify is expected to involve at least 20 congressmen and their aides, including former Senate Majority Leader Tom DeLay. In addition to prison time, Kidan and Abramoff will also have to compensate for the damage caused by the fraudulent deal, estimated at $21 million, according to the court. The businessmen will have to spend at least 3 years in prison, only after the expiration of this period they will be able to apply for pardon. The company SunCruz Casinos, owns 11 casino ships on which players were sent from Florida ports to neutral waters, where there were no U.S. laws regulating the gambling industry. SunCruz Casinos was valued at $147 million, Kidan and Abramoff assembled a pool of investors to buy it and then forged documentation showing that they had invested their own $23 million to purchase the floating casinos. The forged documents enabled them to obtain an $80 million loan against the deal. Abramoff had previously pleaded guilty, along with his other business partner Michael Scanlon, to a fraud scheme that victimized Indian tribes. It also involved gambling. A sentencing date has not yet been set for the case.

In March 2008, the French bank Societe Generale made a billion-dollar deal with Muammar Gaddafi's Libyan Investment Authority (LIA), the sovereign investment fund of Libya. According to The Financial Times newspaper with reference to internal documents of the financial organization, LIA invested in SocGen shares only a month after the bank suffered losses of almost five billion euros due to illegal operations of the organization's trader Jerome Kerviel after which it was forced to look for ways to compensate them. As the publication points out, SocGen reports show that the billion dollars received from LIA was almost immediately invested in the shares of the bank itself. At the same time last June, LIA valued its own investment in SocGen shares at 284.5 million dollars - 71 percent lower than in 2008. Societe Generale declined to comment on its relationship with the Libyan fund, saying it does not discuss specific deals or clients. The bank emphasized that it deals with various sovereign investment funds and complies with all established rules. Now international sanctions have been imposed on Libya, according to which the organizations of the EU and other countries are prohibited to do business with the regime of Gaddafi. At the end of May 2011, it also became known that the U.S. bank Goldman Sachs also conducted transactions with the LIA fund. The Wall Street Journal newspaper found out from the bank's reports that in 2008 the Gaddafi Foundation transferred 1.3 billion dollars to Goldman Sachs, but because of the financial crisis investments of the Libyan side depreciated by 98 percent.

Forbes magazine together with a number of real estate companies named the most unusual residential houses for sale in the U.S. In the city of Pittsford (New York) for 1.1 million dollars sold "house-mushroom". The building is five mushrooms, the caps of which are connected to each other. Each hat is a living space. Thus, the house has two living rooms, a study, a guest room, as well as a kind of patio (open area).In Texas for $ 8.9 million put on sale a mansion in Moroccan style. The area of the two-story house is 1,830 square meters. It has eight bedrooms, nine bathrooms, three kitchens, several living rooms, a study, a library and four fireplaces. On the adjoining plot of land are a swimming pool, several fountains, a garage for six cars, a mini zoo and two two-story guest houses.The most expensive of the presented houses is located in Los Angeles. The cost of the "Schnabel House" is 13 million dollars. The object was erected in 1989 (reconstructed in 2010) and is made of plaster, glass, copper, steel and lead.The cheapest object is offered for 225 thousand dollars. The dome house, made of reinforced concrete and polyurethane foam, is located in New Mexico.A number of other buildings can be noted. For 3 million dollars you can buy a castle that resembles a Croatian fortress of the 16th century. The object is located in the New York neighborhood of the Bronx. For sale in Pennsylvania is a church, converted into an apartment building. The building, built in 1896, has three bedrooms and two bathrooms. The object is offered for 1.5 million dollars.Abroad, it is common practice to turn non-residential objects into residential ones. The list of the most unusual residential objects abroad, compiled in April by the real estate agency DOKI, in particular, were inactive lighthouses, mills, churches, railway stations, water towers, marine platforms and bunkers.

The maximum pension in Ukraine today is 10,740 hryvnia (about 24,650 rubles). This was stated by the country's deputy minister of social policy, Mykola Shambir, the Ukrinform news agency has reported. He pointed out that since 2011 there has not been a single case when a citizen of Ukraine was assigned a pension exceeding this amount. "There are pensions that were appointed before this year. They are somewhat more, but again - it depends on who has them," Shambir said. The Agency recalls that, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, the average pension in Ukraine as of July 1, 2017 was 1888 hryvnia (about 4 thousand 350 rubles).

Almost half of Russians (45 percent) supported the idea of introducing a tax on deadbeats in the country. This is according to the results of a poll by the All-Russian Center for Public Opinion Research (VTsIOM), RIA Novosti reported on Wednesday, September 28. The initiative is supported most of all by people of retirement age (59 percent) and supporters of the CPRF (53 percent). Young people aged 18 to 34 (54 percent), residents of large cities (54 percent) and respondents with a high level of income (55 percent) oppose it. About half of Russians (45 percent) define the concept of "idleness" as not having a job without a valid reason and unwillingness to work. Another 21 percent of respondents consider all unemployed people to be deadbeats, and eight percent believe that they live at someone else's expense. Alcoholics, drug addicts and beggars are less frequently referred to this category of people, the agency notes. As for punishment for idleness, 45 percent (mostly older people) believe that a year of correctional labor for those who evade employment for more than six months is an adequate measure. 47 percent were against such punishment, the majority of them - 58 percent - being young people between 18 and 24 years old. On September 28, Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets said that the government is discussing a bill to introduce a levy for able-bodied citizens who are not officially registered at work. The Ministry of Finance said that it supported the idea of introducing a tax on deadbeats. After Golodets' statement in social networks, the authorities were offered to introduce a tax on illness, on injury, on death, as well as a tax on the tax.

The Ukrainian government needs to find 8 billion hryvnyas (more than 700 million dollars) in the near future to pay pensions and another 4 billion to help families with children. This was stated by new Social Policy Minister Lyudmyla Denysova, ForUm has reported. According to her, the state now does not have such money. Denisova added that the funds were once accrued, but during the administration of a single social contribution, the Ministry of revenues and fees distributed the money for some other purposes. According to the minister, the government intends to return the function of administering the funds to the pension fund. Ludmila Denysova was approved as the new minister of social policy on 27 February along with other members of the government. The cabinet was headed by one of the leaders of the Fatherland party, Arseniy Yatsenyuk. The functions of the president and prime minister are temporarily performed by Rada speaker Oleksandr Turchynov. He assessed the current situation in the Ukrainian economy as catastrophic. According to Turchynov, there are no funds at all on the treasury account. In addition, the speaker noted that the country was experiencing serious problems in the banking industry. The country's international reserves have fallen to 15 billion dollars, five billion less than at the beginning of the year. The new government came to power as a result of the ouster of the previous president Viktor Yanukovych, who left Kiev. This resolved a three-month standoff between the government and the opposition. The Verkhovna Rada decided to form a transitional cabinet. In addition, early presidential elections were scheduled for May 25.

The subsistence minimum for a Russian pensioner in 2020 will amount to 9,311 rubles, follows from the draft federal budget for the next year and for the planning period from 2021 to 2022. The document is published on the portal of drafts and regulations. As of this year, the subsistence minimum of the pensioner in Russia as a whole is set at the level of 8,846 rubles, follows from the data of the Pension Fund. Earlier it was reported on the regions with the largest pensions. In first place was the Chukotka Autonomous District, where the size of payments to pensioners amounted to an average of 24,300 rubles. In second place is the Magadan region with an average size of payments of 21,600 rubles, in third place is the Kamchatka region with 21,200 rubles. According to the Sberbank Non-State Pension Fund, a comfortable standard of living in retirement can be maintained if the income at the end of labor activity remains at the level of 80-100 percent of a person's salary.

The All-Russian People's Front (ONF) conducted a series of monitoring visits to check the progress of construction of four tourist and recreational special economic zones in Russia, according to the press release of the organization. Potential tourist clusters in Buryatia, Altai Republic, Irkutsk Region and Altai Krai were audited. In total, the federal budget was planned to spend more than 51 billion rubles for the creation and development of special economic zones (SEZ) (according to the annual report of the Ministry of Economic Development for last year), recalled the ONF. In the course of monitoring it turned out that for eight years three zones have not started functioning. In all cases, the reasons for the lack of development of tourist zones, according to the ONF, were "negligence and inexplicable delay of the management of subsidiaries of the joint-stock company SEZ", 100 percent owned by the Ministry of Economic Development. "Out of 14 registered residents, only two are carrying out construction. Uncertainty with the realization of the ski resort on the Bychya mountain makes the project unattractive for private investments, as the summer tourist season on Baikal is not more than three months", - it is noted on the results of the inspection of the special tourist zone "Baikal Gavan" in Buryatia. It was planned to allocate more than 22 billion rubles for the creation and development of this zone, 4.4 billion was spent, but the infrastructure was built only on two sites out of five.  Problems are observed in other SEZs. For example, in the "Valley of Altai" they tried to create an artificial lake worth 1 billion rubles. However, as the ONF found out, mistakes were made during construction, which led to constant water leakage. "As a result, the water, and with it the budget money literally flowed into the ground: all three attempts to fill the reservoir failed", - emphasize in ONF. By the end of the year, the public organization intends to submit a report on the state of SEZs in Russia to President Vladimir Putin. The development of domestic tourism has become especially important against the background of the suspension of flights of Russian airlines to Egypt. On November 11, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said that the government intends to compensate the losses of Russian tour operators from the ban on flights to Egypt by developing domestic destinations. Tour companies themselves take such statements critically. "It should be understood that according to the experience of 2011 and 2013, when the direction was also closed, there was no alternative to Egypt on the entire globe, not to mention in our northern country," Maya Lomidze, executive director of the Association of Tour Operators of Russia (ATOR), told Interfax on November 11.

Two former Interior Ministry officials have independently sent statements to Russian Prosecutor General Yury Chaika in which they claim that the criminal case against Khasanbi Sheozhev, head of the Pension Fund of Kabardino-Balkaria, is fabricated. This was reported by the Kommersant newspaper on July 31. Mukhazhir Shabatukov, a former employee of the Economic Security and Anti-Corruption Department of the Kabardino-Balkarian Interior Ministry, and Andrei Barchukov, a former investigator of the Interior Ministry's North Caucasus Federal District Directorate, stood up for Sheozhev. Shabatukov once conducted an inspection at the republican Pension Fund, and Barchukov spent six months investigating the case. "During the initial inspection and in the course of the investigation, taking into account the investigator's explanations and my personal involvement, the fact of Sheozhev's embezzlement of funds was not established," Shabatukov wrote. He claims that his superiors were against the head of the PF from the very beginning and recommended to plant something on him during the search. Barchukov wrote: "I have repeatedly reported to the management that all investigative actions lead to only one conclusion - the lack of corpus delicti." However, according to the former investigator, his superiors each time verbally ordered him to find at least some evidence. According to the official version, the market value of the canteen building mentioned in the criminal case is 38 million rubles. However, Shabatukov claims that this estimate was unreasonable. Barchukov adds that five expert examinations were conducted during the investigation, and they gave conclusions ranging from 20 to 110 million rubles. The Interior Ministry departments of the KBR and the North Caucasus Federal District refused to give official comments to Kommersant. Unofficially, the republican department emphasized that Shabatukov has been retired for a year. The district directorate doubted the existence of appeals to Chaika. Both departments suggested that Shabatukov and Barchukov might be pursuing some personal goals. The case of embezzlement of 68 million 660 thousand rubles from the budget of the Pension Fund was initiated in June 2011. At first Sheozhev's relative, director of Capitol LLC Aslan Amshokov, became a defendant in the case. Sheozhev himself was arrested in this case in mid-July 2012. According to the investigation, in 2008 Sheozhev sold the canteen of the Nalchik Electro-Vacuum Plant, of which he is chairman of the board of directors, to Capitol at an undervalued price of 3.1 million rubles. In 2010, Sheozhev bought the same canteen for the Pension Fund at an inflated price of 106.5 million rubles. The investigation qualifies these actions as fraud. At the same time, Sheozhev's lawyer claims that during the 2008 crisis many buildings were sold for next to nothing. Sheozhev is already the sixth high-ranking Kabardino-Balkarian official who became a defendant in a criminal case in the summer of 2012. Earlier cases were brought against the head of the presidential administration of Kabardino-Balkaria Vladimir Zhamborov, Minister of State Property Management and Land Resources Khabdulsalam Ligidov, his former deputy Ruslan Zhamborov, Mayor of Nalchik Zalimgeri Khagasov and head of the Kabardino-Balkarian Treasury Leonid Zrumov.

The Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund has postponed the discussion of Ukraine's anti-crisis program scheduled for March 20. This was reported by TASS citing a source in the IMF. The meeting was scheduled to decide on the allocation of a 1 billion-dollar tranche to Ukraine. The notice sent out on Saturday, March 18, said that "a short postponement is necessary to assess recent developments and policy measures affecting the financial sector and the broader economic outlook." A date for a new meeting has not yet been set. The source called the postponement of the discussion an unprecedented case. On March 15, the Ukrainian daily Vesti reported that the country's citizens would lose tens of thousands of hryvnias on subsidies and pensions if Kiev agrees to the IMF conditions. To receive the tranche, according to the newspaper, the authorities will have to freeze the indexation of social payments, reduce utility subsidies and carry out pension reform. On March 4, Ukraine signed a memorandum of cooperation with the IMF. This opened an opportunity to discuss the allocation of the next tranche to Kiev. Finance Minister Oleksandr Danylyuk said that the agreement was "the result of the country's implementation of the reform program agreed with the fund and the joint coordinated work of the president, the government and the National Bank". At the beginning of January, the fund put forward a number of requirements for Ukraine, after which the country will be able to receive a new tranche. The conditions include raising the retirement age, privatization of enterprises, reducing the number of civil servants and budgetary employees and opening the land market. Late last year, the international organization transferred to Ukraine the second tranche of financial aid from the European Union in the amount of 55 million euros. In September, the IMF Board of Directors decided to allocate a billion-dollar tranche to Ukraine within the framework of the four-year aid program (its volume exceeds 17 billion dollars).

Moscow's Tverskoy Court has authorized the arrest of Kirill Ustinov, who, according to the investigation, submitted fake payments for 1.25 billion rubles to the Central Bank of Russia on behalf of the PFR. His lawyer Irina Isakova asked to postpone the election of a preventive measure in order to collect documents about her client's serious illness, RAPSI reports. Ustinov was detained in Ryazan on the night of September 2 and then transferred to Moscow. Investigators had fears that the suspect might abscond, as a phone call warning of his possible arrest was intercepted. During detention, Ustinov was found to have a passport in the name of another person with a photo of the suspect pasted into it, Interfax news agency reported. Police officers said that during the search 130 fake seals of arbitration courts, tax inspectorates, as well as the Department of Internal Affairs for Combating Economic Crimes were found. Investigators argued the necessity of Ustinov's detention by the fact that he had taken active measures of conspiracy during the last year. In particular, the suspect changed 23 cell phone numbers, used several cell phones for communication, and traveled exclusively by cab. Ustinov is suspected of having managed to steal significant sums from several banks using forged passports while he was already on the wanted list. An attempt to steal PFR funds from the Central Bank was made in November 2009. One Friday, shortly before the end of the working day, the operational department of the Central Bank received a phone call, allegedly from the Pension Fund, asking to receive a courier who would bring urgent payment orders for 1.25 billion rubles. The Central Bank employees made the wiring of these funds without proper verification. On Monday, the FIU discovered the write-off of the unplanned amount and appealed to law enforcement agencies. The money transfer was timely blocked and all the stolen funds were recovered. According to the investigation, forged payment slips ordered to transfer funds for the construction of FIU facilities to the account of a fictitious company in the bank "Kuban". From there, the stolen funds were transferred abroad in several tranches. During the investigation, former managers of Kuban Bank Alexander Brazhnikov and Svetlana Gorskikh were arrested. Three Central Bank employees were dismissed for gross violation of their job descriptions. The investigation believes that Ustinov not only personally presented false payment orders for payment, but also produced them. Earlier it was reported that the payment orders had forged PFR seal impressions and signatures of the fund's managers.

The Russian Ministry of Finance has submitted to the State Duma a bill on reforms to non-state pension funds (NPFs). The reforms provide for the return of 448 billion rubles to the NPF system in 2015. This was announced by Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseyev on Wednesday, October 8, on the air of TV channel "Dozhd". According to Moiseyev, this amount includes "tails" for 2013, funds that were transferred from state management companies to NPFs at the request of citizens, as well as citizens' own funds (maternity capital, co-financing, additional funding). The Deputy Minister of Finance recalled that at the end of 2013 began a serious reform of NPF regulation - the Central Bank had to check the compliance of the financial indicators of funds with their obligations, and then decide on their admission to the guarantee system. "It was decided that the admission of these funds will take place at the very end of 2014. Accordingly, shortly after that, as soon as the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation, which manages this money, by the way, everything it managed will also be given, that is, the yield - they placed deposits there, 6-7 percent earned - the yield will also be accrued to citizens who in 2013 did not transfer money to the fund. That is, this money was not lying idle," Moiseyev emphasized. In 2014, the government introduced a moratorium on funded contributions. As a result, the funded part of the pension was directed to the pay-as-you-go system. In early August, the government decided to extend the moratorium for 2015. The government's social bloc, in particular Labor Minister Maxim Topilin and Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, proposed to abolish the funded pension altogether and make the pension system fully solidary.

A resident of Kuzbass confessed to an imperfect murder to get home at the expense of the police. This is reported on the website of the transport Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Siberian Federal District. At the railway station in Kemerovo on January 6, an intoxicated 54-year-old resident of Belovo (Kemerovo region) appealed to the duty room of the transport police. The man said that he wanted to confess to the murder of his father, committed in November 2015. "According to the suspect, his father several months ago received a pension, which he then transferred in the bank to his son's savings book. Part of the money relatives cashed in, bought alcohol and celebrated this joyful event, after which the son strangled his father and left home," - noted on the website of the agency. The man also said that from November to January he visited relatives in the Novosibirsk region. Having spent 50 thousand rubles, which were on the book, he decided to return home. The police found out that the allegedly murdered father is alive and is in one of the police stations in Belovo, where he was taken for being intoxicated. After that, the suspect admitted that he had denigrated himself in order to return home for free: he expected that he would be transferred to Belovo, after which it would turn out that there was no crime. Materials on this incident were transferred to the Belovo police, where a procedural decision will be made.

Since April 1, Moscow has become the first region of Russia where the income of all pensioners exceeds the subsistence minimum, "PRIME-TASS" reports. Today the Moscow Government's order No. 361-RP of March 15, 2005 "On Increasing Monthly Compensation Payments to Certain Categories of Pensioners from April 1, 2005" came into force. The document requires from April 1, 2005 to increase the size of compensation payments to those categories of pensioners whose total sum of pensions and compensation payments does not reach the subsistence minimum. As of the 4th quarter of 2004, the subsistence minimum in Moscow amounted to 2531 rubles. At the same time, the total amount of pensions and compensatory payments does not include payments in lieu of canceled benefits, so pensioners will actually receive more. According to the interlocutor of the news agency, the amount of payments will depend on the working experience of the pensioner. The Department of Social Protection will be obliged to monthly increase the size of compensation payments to the level of subsistence minimum. The Department of Finance of Moscow has allocated 250 million rubles for these purposes. On average in Russia, the subsistence minimum is about 2 thousand rubles, and the pension fund plans to gradually bring the basic part of the pension up to it by 2008. At present, the size of the basic part of the pension is about 1,000 rubles.

On April 26, the grand opening of the children's shopping center "Aerobus" took place on Varshavskoe highway in Moscow. According to the press release of Becar Commercial Property company, managing the center, the total area of "Aerobus" is 32600 square meters.The complex "Aerobus" includes an office center, shopping areas and an entertainment zone.  The center includes stores of specialized children's goods. Also there are compactly located the center of motherhood and childhood "Olant", children's entertainment club "Ostrov" and fairy-tale cafe.The concept chosen by Becar allowed to form a full-fledged pool of tenants, 85 percent of which specializes in children's goods. According to Igor Galitsin, Vice President of Becar Realty Group Moscow, thanks to the new design solutions it was possible to organize a local play zone, as well as to expand the share of retail space in the overall space of the center.The owner of the complex is Non-State Pension Fund "Gazfond", which invests in real estate in order to diversify the depositors' funds.

According to the latest data, 108 rioters arrested during clashes with police in various Greek cities remain in custody, France Presse news agency reported on Wednesday. Twenty-nine people have been hospitalized as a result of the riots, which are in their fourth day. Most have been poisoned by tear gas, which police are using to try to contain the rioters. In Athens alone, 49 office and three government buildings, 47 stores, 14 banks and 20 cars were set on fire. The Greek capital's mayor Nikitas Kaklamanis said more than 370 stores may have been damaged during the riots. Rioters have been organizing attacks on police officers, pelting them with petrol bombs and trying to break the cordon around government buildings. The rioters joined the demand for the resignation of the government, which was put forward by opposition leader George Papandreou. In his opinion, the authorities are not coping with the situation and have lost public confidence. Recall, riots in Greece began after the December 6 murder of 15-year-old Athens youth Alexandros Grigoropoulos. The police officer arrested on suspicion of murder, claims that the bullet hit the teenager ricochet. It is up to a ballistics examination to confirm or deny his claim. About six thousand people came to the funeral of Grigoropoulos, which took place on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a general strike against pension reform and the government's economic policy is scheduled for December 10 in Greece, which will last 24 hours.

A resident of the city of Moon (Pennsylvania, USA) Jennifer Mudrick (Jennifer Mudrick) found in the playhouse for children in "McDonald's" game with the image of a "seducing" naked woman. This is reported by the Consumerist portal. Leaving her 11-year-old daughter at the touch screen machine, on which children can spread the card solitaire, the American on one of the cards saw a picture of a woman in a seductive pose without any clothes. The mother reported this to McDonald's employees, but they chose not to turn off the machine. According to representatives of the fast food restaurant chain, the game has been in existence for more than 10 years, and previously there were no complaints about it. Social media users supported Madrick, noting that such images have no place in a children's game. In early August, a Muslim family from New York City reported that a McDonald's employee purposely put pork in their McChicken sandwiches. The victims reported that one member of the family vomited twice when he realized the burger had pork instead of chicken.

A St. Petersburg court has charged motorist Mikhail Zazhigalov 50,000 rubles for publishing video clips featuring former traffic police inspector Alexander Khrebtov, who was fired from law enforcement after beating up a Blue Buckets activist. According to "Fontanka.ru", the court found that the videos humiliate the honor and dignity of the traffic inspector. In addition to Zazhigalov himself, the plaintiff will have to pay compensation to the wife of the motorist. The court charged her 25 thousand rubles. In addition, the defendants must remove the videos from the network that have become the subject of the proceedings and compensate Khrebtov for court costs. Zazhigalov told "Fontanka" that he is going to appeal the court decision in a higher instance and, if necessary, is ready to go to the European Court of Human Rights. According to the newspaper, Zazhigalov has repeatedly clashed with Khrebtov and regularly posted videos of him on the Internet. It was these recordings that helped to establish the identity of the inspector after the beating of the activist of the movement "Blue Buckets", which advocates for equal rights for all motorists regardless of position. Activists of "Blue Buckets" and a similar organization "Road Control" Georgy Kokorin and Alexei Novikov were beaten on the night of May 19 in the town of Kolpino near St. Petersburg. According to them, they made a remark to police officers for an improperly parked car. The activists recorded the conversation on a video recorder, and they refused to give the recording to the inspectors. Then one of the policemen called someone, and a few minutes later five people arrived in a car, beating Kokorin and Novikov in front of the inspectors. As a result of the police inspection, three traffic inspectors were fired from the law enforcement agencies, including Khrebtov, who became the only direct participant in the conflict, while his colleagues simply did not interfere in what was happening. In addition, several high-ranking officers of the Kolpino police also lost their posts. A case has been opened over the beating itself, and so far one suspect has been detained.

Insurance contributions of employers should not be reduced, as well as in general to change the scheme of financing pensions. This was stated by the head of the Federation Council Committee on Social Policy Valery Ryazansky on Thursday, May 25, reports the National News Service (NNS). In his opinion, insurance premiums should be stable, as business and the pension system have already adapted to them. "Every time this norm is prolonged when budgets are adopted, but today the contributions are already reduced. Therefore, if we are talking about an even greater reduction in the amount of contributions from business, additional budget revenues should increase," the senator explained. There will be a serious discussion on this issue, he added. Earlier on May 25, "Vedomosti" reported that the Russian Finance Ministry proposed to transfer the financing of the fixed payment to the pension to the federal budget. This will help preserve the pension rights of Russians when the rate of insurance contributions is reduced from 30 to 22 percent, officials of the government's financial and economic bloc are convinced. In March, Finance Ministry head Anton Siluanov proposed to reduce aggregate insurance contributions and shift the tax burden to VAT, setting both rates at 22 percent.

In the city of Nakhodka (Primorsky Krai) a 34-year-old man accused of robbing a pensioner in a cemetery will stand trial. About it on Monday, October 30, reports the press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia. "The accused, who has no permanent place of residence, came to the settlement of Livadia to relatives. Being in a state of alcoholic intoxication, he went to the cemetery to tidy up the grave of his grandmother. There he saw how the pensioner dug out of the ground next to the grave a container with money bills", - stated in the message. Having seen the "treasure", the drunken visitor of the cemetery attacked the pensioner and stole money - about 700 thousand rubles. After that, the victim turned to the police. He explained that he kept the money from the sale of real estate in a cache on the grave and added a part of his pension there every month. On the fact of what happened, a criminal case was initiated under part 2 of article 161 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Robbery"). The accused of the crime faces up to seven years in prison. On September 19 it became known that police officers detained members of an ethnic criminal group suspected of robbery, robbery and theft. According to the investigation, the detainees, among other things, robbed country houses in the Moscow region.

It is proposed that financial liability should be introduced for the deliberate sale of more tickets than there are seats on an airplane (overbooking). Such an initiative has been put forward by the Russian Ministry of Transport, RBC reports with reference to a representative of the ministry. The ministry believes that the size of the fine should be in line with international practice, but taking into account Russian realities. It is assumed that such a solution will effectively protect the rights of passengers and will be sensitive, but affordable for airlines. The Ministry specified that fines will be levied not in favor of the state, but in favor of the passenger. To prepare the relevant amendments and have time to carry them through the entire legislative cycle, the Ministry of Transport expects to the end of 2018. In September, the initiative to severely restrict ticket sales by airlines to avoid overbooking was proposed by Vitaly Efimov, first deputy chairman of the State Duma Committee on Transport and Construction. Igor Ananskikh, a Duma deputy from Just Russia, proposed to oblige airlines to compensate the cost of a ticket tenfold to passengers who did not have enough seats in the airliner due to overbooking. But this initiative was criticized by experts. In their opinion, the innovation will lead to a significant increase in airfares.

United Airlines passenger David Dao, forcibly dragged out of the plane for refusing to give up his seat to an airline employee, needs the services of a plastic surgeon. This was announced on Friday, April 14, the lawyer of the victim Thomas Demetrio, reports ABC News. The 69-year-old Dao has a broken nose, lost several teeth, and doctors also diagnosed him with a concussion. The incident involving the doctor occurred on Sunday, April 9, at the Chicago airport. Dao and three other passengers were asked to vacate their seats, but when he refused, aviation security personnel dragged him out of the airliner. On Wednesday, April 12, the carrier's CEO Oscar Munoz refused to resign over the scandal. The top manager promised that such a thing will not happen again. After the incident, the capitalization of United Airlines fell by more than 750 million dollars. On Thursday, April 13, another passenger, the president of a California investment company Jeff Fearns, was escorted out of the first class cabin by United Airlines employees, threatening to handcuff him. As a result, the man was not removed from the flight, but was transferred to economy class, refusing to reimburse him for the cost of the ticket.

A pensioner in Novosibirsk fell victim to fraudsters who tricked her into selling her apartment. As Komsomolskaya Pravda reports, a 79-year-old woman was looking for a part-time job, and a company offered her a job working from home. Initially, she was offered to answer phone calls, and then advised to trade in currency. The elderly woman was persuaded that it would be profitable for her to invest in a batch of American helicopters that China was supposedly about to buy. According to the victim, she deposited 82 thousand rubles into the company's account, which she took on credit. "I was shown where to point the arrow and where to press. There is a line in the computer called 'Profit'. If minus stands, it means I have to stop the transaction. And if there is a plus, it means a win," she said about her brokerage experience. Then she was fraudulently forced to sell the apartment for 1.5 million rubles. Now she does not actually own the apartment.

Advisers to U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton predicted her crushing victory over her Republican opponent Donald Trump. This is reported by the publication Politico. "She has 269 electoral votes in her pocket right now. I'd say it's 347, but for the purity of the experiment, we can leave that truth out of the equation for now," David Plouffe, who now works as an adviser to Clinton and ran Sen. Barack Obama's campaign when he won the election in 2008, told the publication. According to the advisers, the Clinton campaign can win the election in several ways - by focusing, for example, on the U.S. East Coast states (New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina and Florida), or it can intensify outreach to the Hispanic community and win by winning Florida, Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico. A third option: focus on the "rust belt" of formerly industrialized states, particularly Pennsylvania. This broad, aide-wise, path to the presidency has allowed Clinton and her potential vice-presidential running mate Tim Kaine to help Democratic candidates in the Senate race. The U.S. presidential election will be held on Nov. 8. As of Sept. 2, Clinton is ahead of her opponent by 4.5 percent, according to poll aggregator RealClearPolitics.

The state of California will pay American Jaycee Lee Dugard, who was kidnapped in 1991 and gave birth to two children by rapist Phillip Garrido, $20 million in compensation, The New York Times reported. Dugard sought damages from the state to compensate her for her 18-year incarceration. She argued that parole officials who watched Garrido for several years and did not suspect that the rapist had colluded with his wife, Nancy, to keep the woman and her two daughters in the backyard of his home. The settlement was passed unanimously by the California legislature, and representatives for the state's governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, have confirmed that he will sign the resolution. Jaycee Lee Dugard went missing at the age of 11. Garrido built a shelter system of sheds, tents and tents in his yard for her. The abducted woman was identified on August 26, 2009 after Phillip Garrido himself brought her to the police station along with her two children. Phillip and Nancy Garrido are currently under investigation. The rapist had already been convicted of kidnapping and sexual assault in 1976.

If oil prices fall below 15 dollars per barrel, the government will be able to fulfill all budgetary obligations, ensure macroeconomic stability, reduce inflation and maintain economic growth. This is stated in a statement by Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, published on the website of the Russian government. According to Kudrin, the stabilization fund will make it possible to compensate for losses from the decline in oil prices within two years. During this time, the government will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure stable development of the economy, the finance minister promised. Kudrin called high oil prices "winning the lottery." He spoke out strongly against spending the stabilization fund on social programs. "Throwing one-step revenues into the economy means accelerating inflation to a threatening level," Kudrin said. He added that if oil prices remain high, the stabilization fund may be invested in highly liquid securities. Kudrin noted that the stabilization fund has accumulated more than 500 billion rubles. According to the law, if this amount is exceeded, the fund's resources can be used to repay Russia's foreign debt. Kudrin reiterated that in 2005 Russia will early repay about 10 billion dollars of foreign debt, if the Russian government and creditor countries approve the relevant decision. German Gref, head of Russia's Economic Development Ministry, summarized the economic results of 2004 on Friday. According to his statement, the year-end GDP grew by 6.9 percent and inflation amounted to 11.6 percent. The Ministry of Economic Development believes that GDP growth will be four to five percent per year in the future. This forecast is contained in the Draft Program of Socio-Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the medium term (2005-2008). Last week, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov admitted that the government does not know how to fulfill President Vladimir Putin's demand to double GDP by 2010.

On January 27, transport police officers detained a 61-year-old pensioner who reported by phone about an explosive device allegedly planted at Vnukovo airport, Interfax reports. After her call, the airport was fully inspected by dog handlers and sappers, but no bomb was found. But the caller herself was found very quickly. "She turned out to be a 61-year-old woman who lived in the city of Rybinsk. A task force was sent to the address of her residence, which detained the 'terrorist'," the police said. The operatives found out that at the time of the call the woman was in a state of severe alcohol intoxication. Later, she herself said that she decided to have fun in this way, but did not think that she would be so quickly identified and detained. A similar story happened in the town of Yelets, where an unknown person on the night of January 27 "booby-trapped" a highway and two railway bridges, as well as a car depot and a pedestrian bridge over the railroad tracks. The bomb was not found there, but the telephone terrorist was caught almost immediately. He turned out to be a local 42-year-old madman. At present the question of instituting criminal proceedings in both cases is being decided. Specialists note that usually cases of telephone "mining" of various objects become more frequent immediately after real terrorist acts, when all sorts of psychopaths become active.

The Russian government will retain the main benefits for the population in 2005, Health and Social Development Minister Mikhail Zurabov said on Sunday during his visit to Samara. RIA "Novosti" reports from the minister's words that, in particular, benefits for drug provision, resort and sanatorium treatment, benefits for travel in suburban trains and in long-distance trains for travel to places of treatment will be preserved. In addition, the government will make monthly additional cash payments to pensions to all categories of citizens who are entitled to benefits under federal law. Zurabov noted that during 2005 citizens will be able to give up part or all of their benefits at their own will in exchange for additional cash payments. The monthly allowances of those who will give up benefits will increase by another 450 rubles in 2006, Zurabov said. He emphasized that "the government is not going to deprive anyone of benefits." Next year the government will allocate 53 billion rubles to provide medicines to the privileged categories of citizens, which is 40 percent of the total turnover of the pharmacy network, the minister added. More than ten billion rubles will be allocated for health resort treatment, which will allow purchasing more than one million vouchers for preferential categories of citizens. Zurabov also said that next year it is planned to expand the list of categories of citizens, who are provided with preferential medicines. According to him, next year the categories of citizens, who will be provided with social support, will be redistributed between the budgets of different levels. Thus it is planned to free up funds of regional budgets. The State Duma adopted as a basis in the first reading of the government bill on preferential payments on July 2 this year.

Gazprombank, Russia's third-largest bank, may soon receive formal status as a state-owned financial organization. According to Kommersant newspaper in its October 6 issue, this will happen if Gazprombank's creditors, including VEB, exchange their debt for a stake in the financial institution's capital. Gazprombank's shareholders have already voted in favor of amendments to the charter that would allow such a conversion. Now the controlling stake in Gazprombank is held by the non-state pension fund Gazfond, while the remaining shares are owned by the state-owned Gazprom, managers and Novfintech. The founders of Gazfond, in turn, are both Gazprom and Gazprombank itself, as well as Urengoygazprom, Yamburggazdobycha and Yugtransgaz. All this allowed market participants to consider Gazprombank a state-owned company, but formally it was not. If the creditors enter the authorized capital of the financial organization, the share of the current shareholders will be diluted. At the same time, Gazprom and VEB together will have a controlling stake, according to Kommersant. Loans that can be converted into Gazprombank shares are on the accounts of three organizations: VEB (for 90 billion rubles), Gazfond (for 32.5 billion) and Gazprom (for 7.5 billion). Whether these organizations will want to receive Gazprombank's shares is still unknown. In early September, the Vedomosti newspaper wrote that the initiative to convert VEB's debt into bank shares belonged to Gazprombank Chairman of the Board Andrei Akimov, who had already told Prime Minister Vladimir Putin about his idea. According to the newspaper, the latter supported Akimov's initiative. Gazprombank has been reporting for the last few years that it is going to float its shares on the stock exchange in the near future. Now the exact date of the IPO is not called. It is not excluded that Gazprombank's new shareholders, if it has any, will be able to withdraw from the financial organization's capital within the framework of the IPO.

The Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation will take measures to forcibly bring the son of President of the Transnistrian Moldovan Republic Igor Smirnov for questioning. This was reported by RIA Novosti on November 7 with reference to the official representative of the Investigative Committee Vladimir Markin. According to the investigation, the son of the head of the republic, Oleg Smirnov, is involved in the theft of humanitarian aid worth 160 million rubles. Along with him, the second suspect, banker Oleg Brizitsky, is planned to be forcibly brought in for questioning. The decision on forced delivery was taken due to the fact that the defendants in the case did not appear voluntarily for questioning. The case under Article 160 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (embezzlement) was announced at the end of October 2011. According to the investigation, in 2008-2009, Smirnov Jr. and Brizitsky embezzled the money that Russia allocated for Transnistrian pensioners' bonuses and support for the republic's agriculture. According to law enforcement agencies, Smirnov Jr. has Russian citizenship and registration in Moscow. He has several Moscow apartments and a house in a cottage village near Moscow. In addition, the son of the head of the republic is the founder of several firms. According to unofficial information from the ITAR-TASS agency, both Smirnov Jr. and Brizitsky are now in Cyprus. Igor Smirnov has been the head of the Transnistrian republic for 20 years. In September 2011, he announced his intention to run for a fifth term. The Russian authorities did not approve these plans. According to some reports, Smirnov was asked to step aside as early as April due to the need to rotate personnel. Russia is expected to support Transnistrian parliamentary speaker Anatol Kaminsky in the presidential election.

Heavy fog on Saturday and Sunday paralyzed the work of the airport "Heathrow", reports AFP. Due to unfavorable weather conditions a total of more than 100 flights were canceled, tens of thousands of passengers could not get to their destinations in time. December 22 and 23 were the last weekends of 20007 before Christmas. During this period of the year, passenger traffic at Heathrow, considered the busiest airport in the world, increases several times. Thus, according to the calculations of the airport management, on December 22 "Heathrow" was to receive 181 thousand passengers, and on December 23 - 214 thousand. Another 118 thousand passengers are expected to use "Heathrow" on Monday. Fog complicated the work of the second London airport - Gatwick, where 88 flights were canceled over the two weekends. However, representatives of Gatwick management specified that those flights, which were not canceled, departed on schedule. In total, in the pre-Christmas period, the UK is going to leave about 3.5 million people going on vacation to Europe. Several million more Britons are expected to use local flights to spend the holidays with relatives living in other parts of the country. Unfavorable weather conditions are not the only factor that may prevent passengers at British airports from reaching their destinations on time. Employees at the country's largest airports - Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, Southampton, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen - are set to strike in early 2008 to protest against pension cuts for new employees. The strikes, held as Britons return from vacation, are expected to disrupt normal airport operations and cause hours-long flight delays.

Rosfinmonitoring has drawn up a package of amendments to legislation to complicate the work of one-day firms. The Vedomosti newspaper, which has the document in its possession, writes about this in its October 18 issue. Thus, the bill provides for new requirements for people founding companies: they should not have a ban on entrepreneurial activity and should not be co-founders of companies that are subject to forced liquidation. At the same time, no fundamental changes will be made to the procedure for registering companies. In addition, the rules of the liquidation itself are tightened: it will not be able to last longer than 18 months, the liquidated firm will also be prohibited to join other companies. Then-President Dmitry Medvedev called for more complicated registration of one-day firms in 2010. In November 2011, the State Duma of Russia passed a law providing for criminal penalties for the creation of shell companies. The Criminal Code was supplemented with two articles: "Illegal formation (creation, reorganization) of a legal entity" and "Illegal use of documents for the formation (creation, reorganization) of a legal entity". The first one provides for punishment in the form of 300-500 thousand rubles fine or imprisonment for up to five years for those who create one-day companies through "front persons". "Front persons" are founders who were misled when forming a legal entity (as a rule, they are drug addicts, homeless people, students or pensioners who received a small reward for providing passport data). The second article penalizes those who voluntarily provided their documents to create a one-day company. They will be fined 100,000-300,000 rubles or punished with correctional labor for up to two years.

Harvard University has filed a lawsuit against the Russian company Surgutneftegaz in New York arbitration, RIA Novosti reports. According to university spokeswoman Kimberly Krieger, one of the most prestigious universities in the United States seeks from Surgutneftegaz to pay dividends on shares worth at least 3.7 million dollars. The suit is a class action, which allows a three-judge arbitration panel to order the company to pay similar compensation to all other holders of its preferred shares in the form of American Depositary Certificates. The panel's verdict could result in Surgutneftegaz paying a total of several hundred million dollars, Krieger said. According to her, Harvard owns approximately three million $130 million worth of Surgutneftegaz's certificates of deposit, which it acquired in 2002-2003 through its investment affiliate Harvard Management Company. These investments are part of the investment portfolio of the university's pension fund. Kimberly Krieger refused to say what Harvard was guided by when deciding to invest in the Russian oil and gas company. According to the lawsuit, Surgutneftegaz has discontinued its accounting reports in accordance with international standards and audits by a leading international auditing firm, and calculates its profits net of expenses and investments. As a result, dividends to preferred shareholders were charged on only 35 percent of total profits in 2002 and only 21 percent in 2003, Krieger said. A panel of judges will be formed soon, and the procedure and schedule for arbitration hearings will be determined. No comments on this topic have been received yet from Surgutneftegaz.

Several new regions have been added to the pilot project on poverty reduction. These are the Komi Republic, Tyva, the Altai and Perm Territories, and the Kurgan Region. This is stated in the message published on the website of the Russian Ministry of Labor. The project was previously implemented in eight regions: the Republic of Tatarstan, Kabardino-Balkar Republic, Primorsky Krai, Nizhny Novgorod, Ivanovo, Lipetsk, Tomsk and Novgorod regions. The main objective of the pilot projects is to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the causes of poverty and to develop, using the example of the subjects participating in the experiment, effective universal mechanisms aimed at both increasing citizens' incomes and reducing poverty. These actions are realized within the framework of the national project "Demography". It includes several federal programs: "Financial support for families at the birth of children", "Promotion of women's employment - creating conditions for preschool education for children up to the age of three", "Older generation", "Strengthening public health" and "Sport - a norm of life". The goals of the National Project are to reduce the mortality rate, provide additional education for citizens of pre-retirement age, and increase the level of accessibility of preschool education.

A couple of American retirees decided to go by cab to their new place of residence in Arizona, which is four thousand kilometers from their former home in the New York borough of Queens. The reason for such a strange decision was the desire to protect the two cats living in the family from traveling by airplane, reports the Associated Press. None of the spouses, whose names are Bob and Betty Matas, can not drive, so they hired a cab with a payment of three thousand dollars per day of travel plus the cost of food, gasoline and overnight accommodation. In a traditional canary-colored Ford SUV, the retirees left New York City on April 10. They planned to spend about ten hours a day on the road. The travelers were amazed at the attention they received from residents of the states that lay in their path. Upon seeing the New York cab, passersby would approach and ask, "Are you the ones?" to which the Matas replied, "Yes, we are." The journey took nearly a week. At noon on April 16, the new Arizona residents were welcomed at a ceremony in the town of Sedona. A real estate agent handed the Matases the keys to their new home in the Oak Creek ("Oak Creek") neighborhood. The couple is now waiting to move into their home. They already have the essentials, as their friend followed them in a truck with the necessities.

An American woman has been put on trial for nearly killing her child while trying to make him vegan. This is reported by CBS News. Elizabeth Hawk, a 33-year-old Pennsylvania resident, is charged with injury to a child. According to investigators, Hawk, who was a committed vegan, tried to feed her 11-month-old son exclusively nuts and berries. The boy's father, from whom Elizabeth had divorced shortly before, was alarmed that his son had a rash all over his skin and could barely move his arms and legs. Although Hawk claimed that the child was simply allergic, the boy was taken away from her for examination. Doctors found the child to be on the verge of septic shock. They characterized the boy's treatment as "inhumane." According to the baby's father's sister, Brandy, Elizabeth held extremely radical views on nutrition and intended to switch to drinking only water and sunlight in the near future. The boy was handed over to his father along with the couple's two other children after receiving the necessary medical care. Now the child's health is improving and his life is out of danger. Elizabeth Hawk is awaiting trial on her own recognizance.

The traditional Halloween celebration has been jeopardized in the United States due to a shortage of pumpkins, The Washington Times reports. The reason for this is the heavy spring rains that ruined pumpkin plantings in some parts of the country. Farmers are worried that they will have to offer cutthroat pumpkin (bottle gourd) to children instead of the traditional pumpkin. A lamp made of a pumpkin with a candle lit inside is now a staple of Halloween, an ancient Celtic holiday widely celebrated in the West on October 31. Vendors fear that cutthroats, commonly used to make vessels and very different in shape from the traditional pumpkin, will not generate enthusiasm among children. In particular, farmers and merchants in Virginia, Pennsylvania and the New England states are complaining about the shortage of pumpkins. In addition to Halloween, another fall holiday, Thanksgiving Day, celebrated in the United States on the fourth Thursday of November, is under threat. Pumpkin pie is a traditional Thanksgiving dish, and a meager harvest in Illinois - the nation's leader in pumpkin production - promises to make pumpkin preserves scarce.

Deputies of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine from the nationalist Svoboda party have fought with security guards of the Kiev city council. This was reported by the New Region. The incident occurred on December 20, when several rallies were held near the building of the Kiev city council. Participants of one rally - about 200 entrepreneurs - demanded from the authorities of the Ukrainian capital not to prevent trade in stalls (small architectural forms). About 20 more pensioners demanded, on the contrary, to remove stalls from Kiev, as they allegedly spoil the appearance of the Ukrainian capital. Also, activists opposing the development of Gostiny Dvor (last year this building, erected in 1809, was excluded from the list of architectural monuments of Ukraine) approached the city council building. Later, Verkhovna Rada deputies from Svoboda and Batkivshchyna joined the protesters. They tried to take the participants of the three actions to the council meeting, where on December 20 they were supposed to discuss the issues of MAFs and the development of Gostiny Dvor. However, this was prevented by Berkut officers who cordoned off the building. According to Novy Region, a fight broke out between the activists, MPs and the guards, with Svoboda MPs rushing into the fray in the first rows. They, as the report says, "scattered" the guards, but were unable to break into the building of the city council through the passageway. Additional Berkut forces and soldiers of the internal troops were deployed to the place. After negotiations, the deputies of the Verkhovna Rada were taken through the police corridor to the city council building for the session. The protesters remained on the street. We would like to point out that on December 12, the first day of the seventh convocation of the Verkhovna Rada, Freedom MPs fought with the guards of the Ukrainian parliament. During a break, the MPs went into the courtyard to cut down the fence that enclosed the Rada building. After cutting down part of the fence, they tried to return to the session, but Berkut officers prevented them from doing so, after which the Freedomists broke down the doors of the second entrance of the Rada and broke inside.

The dog died in the luggage compartment of the plane, "boiled" from the heat in the cage. About it writes The Sun. The mongrel named Rock flew with his owners, the family Ciancimino (Ciancimino), from Boston to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. During a layover in Newark, United Airlines employees informed the owners that the dog had died. According to them, Rock injured himself when he tried to chew the cage to escape. However, Ciancimino is sure that the airline staff, who left the dog to "cook" in the hot baggage compartment, are to blame for the incident. "They literally fried him. He was already completely blind when they discovered him," said John Paul Ciancimino, the father of the family. Moreover, the report of the veterinary clinic, which was in the possession of the publication, said that the dog died in agony from heat stroke, which caused all the organs to fail. United Airlines said that as soon as the staff learned of Rock's condition, he was immediately taken to a local clinic, but veterinarians were unable to save the animal. The airline reimbursed the family for all expenses related to the transportation of the pet's body. Earlier in September, another dog, a nine-month-old bulldog named Roger, did not survive the flight. The animal died during a transatlantic flight due to the fault of airline employees who left him without water for 18 hours.

In China, a policeman carried a pensioner across the road on his back. The Daily Telegraph paid attention to the video. The video was shot in the city of Mianyang in Sichuan province in the southwest of the country. An elderly man with a cane was walking very slowly and did not have time to cross the road on a green light. A policeman noticed this and approached the old man and put him on his back. The drivers of cars patiently waited until the policeman with the pensioner crossed the road and did not honk. On June 1, it was reported about a Chinese pensioner, who together with his grandson was knocked off his scooter by a playful dog. The man suffered multiple fractures, including collarbone and ribs, and the boy was only slightly frightened.

The deficit of the Pension Fund in 2010 will exceed a trillion rubles even without taking into account the reassessment of the rights of pensioners with Soviet experience. This was stated by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, reports "Interfax. According to Kudrin, from January 1, 2010 all pensioners in Russia will receive pensions at a level not lower than the regional minimum subsistence level of pensioners. "We are practically eliminating poverty among pensioners. This is a global step, but an expensive one," Kudrin explained. The Minister also noted that in 2011 the deficit of the pension system will be reduced and will amount to less than a trillion rubles. This will happen due to the fact that January 1, 2011 is scheduled to increase insurance contributions from companies to the Pension Fund. Recall that now the budget of the Pension Fund is formed at the expense of the unified social tax (UST). From January 1, 2010 it will be replaced by three insurance contributions: to social, medical and pension funds. It was initially planned that the tax rate would be increased from 26 to 34 percent, but the government decided to postpone the rate increase until 2011 amid the crisis. The increase in business taxes from 2011 has already caused mixed reactions among Russian officials. Thus, Minister of Economic Development Elvira Nabiullina and presidential aide Arkady Dvorkovich believe that the increase in insurance premiums can be compensated by reducing VAT. Alexei Kudrin opposes this initiative. According to the updated Russian budget, 374 billion rubles will be allocated from the budget in 2009 to cover the deficit of the Russian Pension Fund. A sharp increase in the fund's deficit in 2010 will occur because pensions will be slightly increased in 2009.

Extension of the freezing of pension savings for 2016 is not excluded, but it would be a wrong decision. This was stated by the first Deputy Chairman of the Bank of Russia Sergey Shvetsov, reports the correspondent of "Lenta.ru". "This can not be excluded, but the government is now aiming to make a decision," he said. At the same time Shvetsov noted that in May 2015 non-state pension funds (NPF) will receive frozen money for the second half of 2013. The first deputy chairman of the Central Bank added that the regulator will insist on preserving the possibility of transition from one NPF to another once every five years. February 10, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said that the government is not considering the possibility of extending the freeze on pension savings. Before that, on February 4, Minister of Labor and Social Security Maxim Topilin said that his department may propose freezing pension savings for 2016. He explained that this would be possible in a "difficult budgetary situation". In 2014, the government introduced a moratorium on funded contributions. As a result, the funded part of the pension was diverted to the pay-as-you-go system. In early August, the government decided to extend the moratorium for 2015. The social block of the government (the head of the Ministry of Labor Maxim Topilin and Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets) earlier proposed to completely cancel the funded pension and make the pension system fully solidary. Correction: An error was found and corrected in the article "The Central Bank spoke out against the extension of the pension moratorium for 2016". Earlier it was reported that the Central Bank allowed the extension of the freezing of pension savings for the next year. In fact, Sergei Shvetsov said that the extension of the moratorium is not excluded. At the same time, he does not support such a decision. "Lenta.ru" apologizes to readers.

On 1 May, the price of gas for Ukrainian industrialists rose by 10 percent, and from June its price will rise by another three percent. The government came up with such a price increase in order to compensate for Naftohaz Ukrayiny's expenses on gas sales, the Kommersant Ukraina newspaper has said. According to the newspaper's source in the government, the state-owned company Naftohaz Ukrayiny will receive an additional 110 million dollars a month from the new fee. Industrial enterprises have already said that they intend to defend the previous prices, as the cost of gas is rising almost monthly. Some of them, such as Dniprazot, have already prepared a package of documents to challenge the price increase in the Antimonopoly Committee. The cost of fuel for Ukrainian enterprises has been raised for the fourth time in 2008. If on January 1, a thousand cubic meters of gas cost about 1,282 hryvnias (6.3 thousand Russian rubles), by June 1, it will already cost 1,477 hryvnias (7.3 thousand rubles). We shall remind you that under the new contract with Gazprom, only Naftohaz Ukrayiny and a subsidiary of the Russian monopoly can sell foreign gas in Ukraine.

On Tuesday morning, five children died in a fire in the US city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania as a result of a fire, according to the Associated Press. The dead were from 3 to 7 years old. Two more children managed to escape from the burning building on their own. The children were in an apartment on the second floor of the three-story building. Neighbors were unable to come to their aid as the only staircase leading to the apartment was engulfed in flames. The victims belonged to two different families, their parents had left them in the same apartment under the care of a teenage nanny. However, this girl has disappeared, the police have already started searching for her. Law enforcement officials have only the nickname of the nanny, but they did not disclose it in the interests of the investigation.

The gap between Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump, who won the election, exceeded two million votes. This is evidenced by the data of the resource Cook Political Report, which follows the counting of votes that continues in several states. For Clinton, according to data as of November 22, 64.2 million voters voted, while for Trump - 62.2 million. At the same time, the gap may grow even more, since in those states where the Democratic candidate won, including California, the counting of votes has not been completed, notes "Voice of America". At the same time, Clinton's advantage will not change the outcome of the election. This is the fifth time in U.S. history when the winner gains fewer electoral votes than the loser. The last time this happened was in 2000, when Republican George Bush Jr. became president, trailing rival Al Gore by half a percent. The final vote count then dragged on for months. On Nov. 23, a group of election law and computer experts called on Clinton's campaign to seek recounts in the three states where Trump won by a slim margin. In their opinion, there may have been cyberattacks in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania to manipulate the election results. On Nov. 22, several Democratic electors - at least six - urged their Republican colleagues not to vote for the U.S. president-elect. On November 8, elections were held in the country, and the Republican candidate won with 290 electoral votes out of the required 270.

In 2008, the Russian Pension Fund (PFR) for the first time incurred losses of 20 billion rubles from the temporary placement of pension savings. "The "lost" funds will be compensated to the fund from the federal budget, says the Kommersant newspaper. The newspaper reminds that employer companies transfer 6 percent of their employees' salaries to the PFR every month. During the year, the PFR temporarily places them in government bonds, after which it transfers these funds to management companies. In 2008, the PFR received a total of about 150 billion rubles transferred by employers for their employees in 2007. About 90 percent of this amount is to be received by the state corporation VEB, which manages the funds of the "silents" (Russians who have not transferred their funds to private funds and management companies), and the rest is to be received by trust managers of pension savings. At present, the legislation does not provide for the possibility for the PFR to send to VEB and private management companies a smaller amount of funds than was received from employers. The Ministry of Finance has already agreed to compensate the PFR, but this issue will be finally resolved on March 16, when the government will adopt amendments to the 2009 budget. It should be noted that the return on pension savings managed by VEB in 2008 amounted to minus 0.46 percent. In total, VEB's net loss for the year amounted to 1.158 billion rubles. In 2008, private management companies investing citizens' pension savings also showed negative profitability, which averaged minus 25.5% per annum.

Along with the reform of the non-state pension insurance system, the Russian government is preparing similar decisions on "cleaning up" the insurance and banking markets. This was reported in the October 3 issue of Kommersant without specifying the source of the information. The details of the forthcoming decisions are not specified. The newspaper writes that the program of structural reforms will probably be supplemented by changes in other sectors within the "political window" in 2013-2015 (apparently, it means the time before the presidential elections in 2016). The requirement for non-state pension funds to undergo corporatization became known at the end of August. Corresponding amendments to the legislation were prepared by the Ministry of Finance. As a result, the Ministry expects to keep only viable NPFs in the Russian Federation (according to market participants, after the reform the number of funds will decrease from 130 to 20-30 NPFs). Changing the legal status of NPFs began to be discussed in the first half of this year, when First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov instructed to make the system of NPFs transparent and understandable. As a result, as stated by the deputy prime minister, confidence in non-state pension funds should increase, and citizens will be more active in saving for their future pension. "The government is concerned about the situation in the NPF market. No one wants a repeat of the situation with cheated shareholders," Finance Minister Anton Siluanov explained the need for reform. It is the reform of non-governmental pension funds that the authorities explain the decision to transfer all the citizens' savings for 2014 to the insurance (pay-as-you-go) part of the pension. This decision will reduce the budget transfer to the Pension Fund by 244 billion rubles. The government decided to allocate savings to the current needs of the PFR against the background of budget expenditure cuts.

Primorye veterans of the Great Patriotic War and pensioners have invited Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to a bathhouse. As "PrimaMedia" reports, the pensioners wrote a letter to the head of the government with a corresponding request. "We would like to communicate with you personally, to get acquainted, to listen, and to speak out ourselves. From the bottom of our hearts we invite you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, to the bathhouse, where we not only steam, but also communicate," their appeal reads. There is no word on the prime minister's reaction. Vladimir Putin, according to PrimaMedia's source, will arrive in Vladivostok in early September. As the publication notes, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov recently came to the Primorsky Krai as part of the preparation for the trip of the head of the government. The bathhouse, to which pensioners called Vladimir Putin, was built by former member of the regional parliament Adam Imadaev. Visiting the facility is free of charge for pensioners and veterans. Earlier Putin spoke favorably about the baths. Thus, during the "direct line" in 2008, he, answering a question about his attitude to the Russian bath, said: "Positively. I have a positive attitude to everything Russian." In 2011, while visiting a village in the Krasnodar region rebuilt after a flood, he remarked that a bathhouse "is a good thing." In 2001, it was reported that Putin prefers a bath with honey to a bath with vodka.

A number of airports in the northeastern United States canceled more than five thousand flights on Tuesday, March 14, because of the impending snowstorm. This is reported by the Associated Press. The total number of canceled flights for both domestic and foreign destinations amounted to 5,348 arrivals and departures. Forecasters predict that the elements will affect eight states - Pennsylvania, New York, Connecticut, Maine and several others. US railroad companies and the New York metro notified about the partial closure of communication routes due to bad weather. According to meteorologists' forecasts, a storm is expected in the northeastern US states on Tuesday, during which 30 to 45 centimeters of snow is expected to fall. Tens of millions of Americans are expected to be in the weather zone. Experts predict that temperatures will be atypically low for this season in the northeast of America - from two to four degrees Celsius below zero. In January, the Turkish carrier Turkish Airlines canceled more than 700 flights in Istanbul in a single day due to prolonged snowfall.

A resident of the Chinese province of Jiangsu refused to sell his favorite bush for 100 thousand yuan (about 875 thousand rubles). This was reported by Shanghaiist on Wednesday, February 1. In the late 1970s, an acquaintance gave Wang Genliang a 20-centimeter holly seedling. In the 40 years since then, the bush has grown to 2.5 meters. All this time, the man has cut its branches two or three times a year so that it takes the shape of a rooster. In the year of the Rooster according to the Chinese calendar, the sheared holly gets a lot of attention. According to the 78-year-old pensioner, passers-by take pictures of the rooster at least once a day. Someone even offered to buy the bush for 100,000 yuan, but Wang Genliang did not take the money. "This is my hobby," he explained. - I don't want to sell it." Last December, it was reported that a statue of a scowling rooster with a golden comb resembling Donald Trump's hairstyle was installed in the center of the Chinese city of Taiyuan. The same figurines, but smaller, are sold online.

In the English county of Nottinghampshire retired police dogs will receive a pension of 500 pounds sterling, reports Sky News. The elected police commissioner Paddy Tipping announced his intention to pay a pension to service dogs for three years after they cease to perform their duties. According to the commissioner, these dogs have worked hard all their lives and deserve to be cared for with dignity. The money that will be given to the dogs as a pension will go towards veterinary bills, and will be provided at the first request of their handlers. The handlers for the dogs are usually their former colleagues - police officers who have previously worked alongside the dogs. Paddy Tipping expressed his displeasure at police officers having to pay for retired dogs' food and veterinary care. "The officers love the dogs as it is," he noted. - "They care for their former colleagues and I think it's unfair to make them pay the bills as well. There are currently 26 dogs serving at Nottinghampshire Police Station, trained to search for drugs and explosives, as well as carrying out tasks to locate and apprehend suspects. The dogs are trained for this work at the age of one year. Service dogs work for about six to seven years and then "retire." On average, six dogs leave the service per year. It will cost £39,000 for pension payments to current 'employees' if the scheme goes ahead. Nottinghypshire is not the first county to implement this program to support elderly service dogs. A similar fund to support retired dogs was announced by Cambridgeshire County Police Department in 2009. Paddy Tipping's program will begin next month. It has not been disclosed how many retired dogs are currently in the care of officers. The money is planned to come from the UK budget.

In the Moscow district Kosino-Ukhtomsky committed an apartment theft. About it on Wednesday, January 31, reports the Agency of city news "Moscow" with reference to a representative of the press service of the Moscow Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A woman born in 1936 turned to the police with a statement. The pensioner said that an unknown person entered her apartment and stole gold jewelry belonging to her daughter. The amount of damage caused was estimated at almost two million rubles. A criminal case was initiated. The suspect and the stolen items are currently being searched for. In mid-January, 12 million rubles, 350 thousand dollars and 250 thousand euros were stolen from the apartment of an unemployed man in the north-east of the capital. The total amount of damage is estimated at almost Br50 million.

In 2008, the government will allocate more than 343 billion rubles to increase pensions and salaries for state employees. This was announced by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of Russia Alexei Kudrin at the meeting of the President with members of the Government. RIA Novosti reports his words. According to the Minister, these funds will not be taken from those budget revenues, which are obtained from the sale of oil and gas at high prices. Kudrin noted that the budget will receive additional money from additional GDP growth, savings on debt service and exchange rate differences. The increase of pensions in Russia will take place already on February 1, 2008. This information was confirmed by Minister of Health and Social Development Tatyana Golikova on January 21, PRIME-TASS reports. She noted that initially the insurance part of the pension was planned to be increased by seven percent, but then it was decided to increase payments by 12 percent. Earlier it was reported that the unplanned increase in pensions would create a hole of 30 billion rubles in the budget of the Pension Fund. As Kommersant noted, these funds are planned to be received from the population, as the costs will be provided from additional income from the receipt of insurance pension contributions.

Out of 120 items of the government's anti-crisis plan, 23 (20 percent) remained unfunded. According to the text of the document, the amount and source of additional funds will be determined by the results of the first half of the year. The Cabinet of Ministers, in particular, has not yet found money for the second indexation of pensions in the second half of 2016, maintaining the level of drug provision for citizens, support for manufacturers of medical products of the lower price segment (up to 50 rubles) and for additional measures for import substitution in agriculture. "A number of positions in view of the current conditions are formulated in such a way that they will be financed when sources of income arise and based on the results of work for the first half of the year," Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said at a government meeting on March 1 (quoted by Rambler News Service). The total cost of anti-crisis measures is almost 470 billion rubles. The largest item of expenditure is the provision of loans to regions (310 billion rubles), support for the automobile industry (88.6 billion), and support for the disabled (about 30 billion). The government will spend 16.5 billion rubles on subsidizing mortgage loans.

On Saturday, the Federal Arbitration Court of the Moscow District overturned the decision to liquidate TV-6 television company, which was made in September by the Moscow Arbitration Court on the claim of one of its shareholders, the non-state pension fund LUKOIL-Garant. According to RIA Novosti, the case has been sent for a new review by the Arbitration Court. "This decision still confirms that it is possible to achieve a fair hearing in a Russian court," Alexander Berezin, deputy executive general director of TV-6, told NTVRU.Com. According to him, "such successes are possible, firstly, thanks to the hardest daily work done by our journalists and management to turn a loss-making company into the leader of the television market, and secondly, thanks to the civil courage of the judges who make the decision, and, of course, thanks to the brilliant preparation of the TV company's lawyers". Berezin believes that even if the case is expedited, the process may take several months. As for the possibility of deprivation of the broadcasting license, the threat of which was real during the liquidation process, Berezin believes that now there are no formal grounds to fear any interference from the Ministry of Press. This position is also shared by the TV company's lawyer Geralina Lyubarskaya. She is convinced that "at the new consideration this case will die of its own accord," as Article 35 of the Law "On Joint Stock Companies", according to which the reason for liquidation can be the unprofitability of an enterprise, will cease to be valid from January 1. LUKOIL-Garant is trying to liquidate the TV company on the basis of this document. It should be reminded that on September 27, 2001, the Moscow Arbitration Court satisfied the claim of LUKOIL-Garant to liquidate CJSC Moscow Independent Broadcasting Corporation, the owner of TV-6. On November 26, 2001, Mosar Arbitrage upheld the verdict of the court of first instance and the ruling on the liquidation of the television company came into force. On December 24, the execution of the liquidation ruling was postponed until January 16 - until the Federal Arbitration Court of Moscow District considers MNVK's cassation appeal. At the same time, the court dismissed LUKOIL-Garant's claim demanding to suspend the governing bodies, i.e. MNVK's management, "from performing the functions of managing and disposing of property, as well as to prohibit these governing bodies from using the broadcasting license". On December 27, the consideration of MNVK's cassation appeal against the decision to liquidate the TV channel was postponed from January 16 to December 29.

The initiator of the date postponement was LUKOIL-Garant. It was LUKOIL-Garant that obtained the court rulings on the liquidation of TV-6. According to a representative of the fund, the request to speed up the consideration of the cassation is due to the fact that "the TV company continues to engage in economic activities that lead to an increase in accounts payable, which is prohibited by the ruling of the Moscow Arbitration Court of October 11.

In the Kemerovo region will stand trial three previously convicted brothers 25, 29 and 36 years old, who, according to the investigation, robbed pensioners twice a night last February. About it on Friday, October 6, reports the press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia. "The investigation established that in February of this year the attackers attacked two pensioners at night. One of the brothers, who was at that time under treatment in the TB dispensary, to commit crimes escaped from the medical institution," - stated in the message. According to the Interior Ministry, in the settlement of urban type Krapivino accomplices drove up to the house of an 83-year-old man and broke the window with a shovel, then, holding the pensioner by force, began to demand money. Having taken 20 thousand rubles and a bag with food, the brothers fled by car. "The same night the accused committed another similar crime. They broke into the home of an 86-year-old resident of the village of Bannovo and, using violence against the owner, took away his cell phone, as well as a wallet containing 80 thousand rubles. The brothers divided the stolen goods among themselves," - noted in the department. A criminal case under paragraphs "c" and "g" of Part 2 of Article 161 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation ("Robbery") was initiated on the fact of the incident. The defendants were detained soon after the crimes were committed; they face up to seven years in prison.

Russian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets has urged the government to support consumer demand by maintaining pensions and salaries at the proper level. This is reported by TASS with reference to the TV channel "Russia 24". She pointed out that due to the decline in real incomes of the population by 13 percent, retail turnover fell by 15 percent. Golodets noted that for some groups of goods the reduction is even faster. In particular, manufacturers of school uniforms, she said, "have stated that this year the order has decreased by 38 percent." "Today, the change in trends of our economy also depends on the purchasing power," Deputy Prime Minister emphasized, "If we do not support the solvent and purchasing demand of our population, the economy will have no chance to develop. In mid-June, Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Protection Lubov Yeltsova warned that real wages in Russia will return to the level of 2014 only in 2018. At the same time, the head of the Ministry of Economic Development Alexei Ulyukayev predicted a 1.1 percent growth in real incomes in 2016. In 2017-2018, according to his estimates, this indicator will grow by 3 percent annually. The unemployment peak of 6 percent, he said, will be passed in 2015. Also in late May, Russian Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov said, speaking in the State Duma, that the retail trade turnover in January-April 2015 fell by 6 percent compared to the same period last year due to a decline in the purchasing power of the population.

Leonid Fedun, chairman of the board of directors of Spartak Moscow, has suggested that someone in Washington does not like this soccer club. This is how he reacted to the expansion of US sanctions against Russian individuals and companies, including IFD Capital, which the businessman co-owns. About it on Wednesday, June 21, RIA Novosti reports. "The first such reaction - maybe someone in Washington doesn't like Spartak? I have no other explanation. Maybe there are CSKA fans there," Fedun said. He also added that he considers the sanctions against IFD Capital to be a "bureaucratic mistake" and noted that he does not expect the freezing of assets, TASS reports. On June 20, the US authorities supplemented the sanctions list, which includes individuals and companies allegedly involved in "Russia's actions in Ukraine." The list includes 38 more items, including IFD Capital and the four-star Riviera Sunrise Resort & Spa hotel in Alushta, which is reportedly owned by Fedun. The list was created in April 2014 and has been gradually expanded since then. IFD Capital Group includes Kapital. which has assets under management totaling more than 297 billion rubles. The holding works with pension savings of non-governmental funds and military mortgage assets, and also invests in Spartak. The company was formed in 2003, with Fedun heading the board of directors. At the same time, he acquired a controlling stake in Spartak.

Former U.S. Congressman Curt Weldon traveled to Libya for talks with the leader of the Jamahiriya, Muammar Gaddafi, against whom the international coalition is conducting a military operation. Weldon reported about his trip to Libya in a column for The New York Times. In the material published on April 5, the politician claims that he was invited to the talks by Gaddafi's chief of staff. The American emissary stipulated that his visit to Libya is considered private. Nevertheless, U.S. President Barack Obama and members of Congress were informed about it. Immediately upon arrival Weldon was going to meet personally with the colonel to try to convince him to stop resistance. The results of that meeting, which was to have taken place on April 5, have not yet been reported. Weldon did not fly to Tripoli alone. The former lawmaker was accompanied by WPIX-TV correspondent Larry Mendte and photographer John Frasse. As Mendtee notes in his first report from Libya, Curt Weldon has several proposals for the Libyan leader: a cease-fire agreement, resignation, formation of a new government under Western control, and democratic elections within 12 months. Kurt Weldon, who represented Pennsylvania in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1987-2007 and was deputy chairman of the Armed Services Committee, is not visiting Libya for the first time. In 2004, he led a delegation of congressmen to Tripoli, where he again personally met with Col. Gadhafi and top officials from his administration. That visit was timed to coincide with the dismantling of Libya's nuclear program and symbolized Gadhafi's rapprochement with the Western world. "I know Gaddafi well enough to say that bombing alone will hardly make him surrender," Kurt Weldon commented on his visit. In his opinion, the international community, led by Washington, should return the problem to the political plane before it is too late. Weldon believes that Gaddafi's son Seif al-Islam and other influential Libyan statesmen who are ready for constructive dialog should be involved in the negotiation process. In recent days, Tripoli has expressed willingness to make concessions to end the West's military campaign. It was reported that the colonel's sons Seif al-Islam and Saadi al-Qaddafi have developed a plan to remove their father from power and implement democratic reforms in Libya. On the eve of the authorities' representative Musa Ibrahim said that the current regime agrees to elections, constitutional changes and any other changes, but on the condition that Colonel Gaddafi remains head of state. The opposition, however, refuses to negotiate with Gaddafi's representatives. The rebels are strongly opposed to any of the Colonel's family or cronies remaining in power.

The non-profit organization OCEARCH, which studies marine predators, published photos of a great white shark with signs of attack by an even larger fish. This is reported by the publication Newsweek. OCEARCH specialists caught a male shark named Vimy (Vimy) in the Atlantic Ocean near the U.S. states of Pennsylvania and Connecticut. It was 388 centimeters long and weighed 528 kilograms. The fish was fitted with a tracking device and released. Two scars were visible on Vimy's head, apparently left over from attacks by other sharks. One had had time to heal, the other appeared fresh. "It's pretty clear that someone grabbed his entire head with their teeth," commented OCEARCH founder Chris Fischer. Judging by the teeth marks, the second fish was considerably larger. Fischer speculates that Vimy either got into an argument with another male over a female or wanted to mate with a larger female, who instead bit him on the head. "We know that shark mating can be very violent," Fisher says. - And the fact that sharks bite each other on the head is nothing new. It's an everyday occurrence for them." He doesn't rule out that Vimi could have been injured under other circumstances - for example, during a fight over a seal that was being eaten by another shark - but that's less likely. The great white shark, also known as the man-eating shark, is one of the largest predatory fish in the world. On average, members of this species grow to 4.6-4.8 meters in length. They are considered the most dangerous species of sharks for humans. October 16, it was reported that in Antwerp Zoo one shark ate another in front of visitors. In the video, which was posted on Twitter, a large blacktip reef shark holds a much smaller bull shark in its mouth.

Acting Russian President and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has approved the distribution of responsibilities between the deputy prime ministers in connection with changes in the structure of the Cabinet of Ministers. First Deputy Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov told RIA "Novosti" on January 13. According to the new distribution of duties, the head of the government apparatus, Russian Minister Dmitry Kozak heads the government apparatus and organizes its activities. First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian government, head of the Ministry of Finance Mikhail Kasyanov will coordinate issues of economic and social development of the country, financial and economic, structural and industrial policy, management of financial and property assets of the state. Along with this, Kasyanov will coordinate the activities of the deputy prime ministers and other members of the cabinet, and during the absence of the head of the government he will perform his duties. Kasyanov also coordinates interaction with the Central Bank of Russia and heads the government commission on operational issues. Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Khristenko is to deal with issues of socio-economic development of the regions, fuel and energy complex problems, as well as antimonopoly sphere, to provide support for entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized businesses, to deal with issues of financial rehabilitation of enterprises. In addition, his duties include interaction with international financial organizations. Khristenko is also in charge of trade, currency and export control, foreign economic relations. Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Scherbak coordinates issues of agrarian and land policy, agro-industrial complex reform, food supply and consumer market, as well as natural resources, hydrometeorology, environmental monitoring and protection, geodesy and cartography, forestry and fisheries. Deputy Prime Minister Valentina Matvienko coordinates issues of social policy, labor relations, social insurance, the system of social guarantees, benefits and payments, social protection of the poor, and pensions. She is in charge of general and professional education, health care, culture, and state youth policy. It also handles issues of the Russian trilateral commission on regulation of social and labor relations. However, according to Segodnya newspaper, Matvienko may be resigned in the near future, and her place may be taken by St. Petersburg-based Health Minister Yuri Shevchenko. Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Shoigu, who still heads the Russian Emergencies Ministry, will also be in charge of issues related to the formation and implementation of the state migration policy, resettlement and settlement of citizens, issues related to the development and livelihood of northern territories and small-numbered peoples of the North, as well as issues related to physical culture, sports and tourism. The issues of industrial policy, transportation and communications will be supervised by Deputy Prime Minister Ilya Klebanov. Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Government and Plenipotentiary Government Representative in the Chechen Republic Nikolai Koshman will be in charge of the restoration of the economy and organization of life support for the population of Chechnya, assistance to the people of this republic in the restoration of state and local government bodies. Koshman will also head the Russian government's representative office in the Chechen Republic.

The US presidential administration has stepped up security measures at nuclear power plants after examining a number of al-Qaeda documents obtained in Afghanistan. "As the president has already stated, we know that al-Qaeda collected information and considered nuclear and other high-risk facilities as potential targets," Homeland Security spokesman Gordon Johndroe said. He declined to name any specific targets chosen for the terrorist strike. In particular, journalists of The Washington Times mentioned a number of power plants in the state of Pennsylvania. According to the US intelligence services, the new terrorist attacks were to be carried out on July 4, Independence Day. Meanwhile, the U.S. intelligence reported about two terrorists of "Al-Qaeda", engaged in the creation of a radioactive bomb on the territory of the United States. The militants intended to make a conventional explosive device and equip it with radioactive materials stolen from an energy facility.

The founder of the financial pyramid MMM Sergei Mavrodi will become the host of a television show dedicated to con artists and swindlers. This was told to the portal Life.ru TV presenter Evgeny Lesnoy. It is assumed that Lesnoy and Mavrodi will lead the program together: the show will be based on their conversations about the types of fraud and how not to become a victim of swindlers. Earlier in an interview with the publication "Dni.ru" Mavrodi said that several issues of the TV program have already been filmed. To cooperate with the show, which will be called "Pyramid" and will be released on one of the central TV channels, the founder of MMM intends to "on a voluntary basis". According to Mavrodi, he will appear on TV screens in the same clothes that he currently wears in everyday life: tracksuits and sneakers. The future TV host also talked about plans to cooperate with the Israeli hip-hop team. Recall, earlier Sergei Mavrodi posted on his website a selection of songs on famous classical melodies. In addition, in May 2008, Sergei Mavrodi's book "Temptation" was published. Sergei Mavrodi was arrested in January 2003 and convicted of fraud. He was released in May 2007. The court ordered him to compensate the depositors of the financial pyramid MMM for their losses. The total amount owed amounted to 300 million rubles.

The pension fund deficit is nothing more than a myth. This opinion was voiced by Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets during a meeting on the implementation of pension reform, TASS reports. "Our pension fund is not in deficit, the transfers of the pension fund cover those benefits and those obligations that the state has assumed and which are a continuation of our economic and social policy," Golodets added. She reminded that now enterprises transfer to the pension system 22 percent of the payroll of employees, the rest is paid by the state. According to Golodets, it is about 300 billion rubles. In addition, the government has created favorable conditions for IT-companies and territories of advanced development - they can transfer less money to the pension fund. And in this case the lack of money is compensated by the state. Olga Golodets also reported that after the entry into force of the new pension formula (from January 1, 2015), more than 20 thousand Russians postponed retirement. In the future, they can count on an increased pension. The deficit of the Russian Pension Fund (PFR) in 2015 will amount to 623 billion rubles (expenditures - 7.77 trillion rubles, revenues - 7.15 trillion). The balance gap is financed by the federal budget. Andrei Klepach, Deputy Chairman of Vnesheconombank and former Deputy Minister of Economic Development, estimates that the PFR deficit will more than double by 2017 and exceed one trillion rubles.

More than four billion rubles will be allocated annually from the budget of the Moscow region to provide pensioners with the opportunity to use suburban railway transportation free of charge. This is reported on the website of the regional government on Tuesday, July 3. "All necessary legislative changes will be made during the month of July, so that already from August 1 this year 1.2 million residents of the Moscow region were able to travel for free on suburban rail transport from the region to the capital and back," - said the chairman of the Moscow Municipal Duma Igor Bryntsalov. According to him, this favorable initiative was made possible due to the growth of the region's economic well-being. "For several years, the region's budget has shown a steady growth, including from constantly increasing flows of tax revenues due to the emergence of new large taxpayers in the face of advanced investment and production companies," he specified. Earlier on Tuesday it became known about the agreement between Moscow and Moscow region to provide free travel in suburban trains for all pensioners. Governor of the region Andrey Vorobyov noted that the benefits will also apply to other categories of citizens, in particular, honorary donors and parents of children with disabilities.

US President Barack Obama has said that Senator John McCain is "too liberal" compared to the Republicans who are currently vying for his party's presidential nomination. Agence France-Presse reported that. "In 2008, my opponent in the presidential election was a candidate who was in favor of banning torture, who believed in doing something to fight climate change," Obama said, "That kind of politician, frankly, there's no way that kind of politician could now get the Republican Party's presidential nomination, he would be considered too liberal. To get a sense of what he was talking about, Obama advised watching recent Republican debates. He said his campaign is thinking about making clips of those speeches and showing them without commentary. Obama's campaign staff is trying to portray the politicians currently vying for the Republican nomination as extreme conservatives. According to experts, the Republican electorate has indeed become more conservative, and this requires politicians to avoid making statements that may appear liberal. At the same time, observers say that in the presidential election itself, Republicans will obviously shift closer to the center in order to gain support from a broader constituency. Currently, the leaders of the Republican race are former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum. Romney, who previously had a liberal image, now seeks to speak from emphasized conservative positions. Santorum is considered the most conservative politician among those who intend to run for president. Among his recent statements, Santorum said that he does not believe in the "absolute separation" of church and state. At the same time, Congressman Ron Paul, also seeking the Republican presidential nomination, is a libertarian and favors minimizing the role of government in the lives of Americans as much as possible. According to Rasmussen Reports, Ron Paul recently surpassed Obama in the national polls. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, although considered a conservative, calls for allowing those illegals who do not break the law to remain in the United States.

Russia's largest retail chain X5 Retail Group will keep discounts, promotions and bonuses in its stores (Pyaterochka, Perekrestok and Karusel chains) for all pensioners - the company will ignore the increase in the retirement age. This is stated in a letter from the company to the party "United Russia", reports RBC. Thus, all benefits for citizens of already pre-retirement age will be preserved on a par with citizens of the new retirement age. Moreover, the company plans to create new jobs for Russians over 50 years old. What positions such employees will be able to apply for, it is not specified. The retail chain claims that only at the end of 2017 in the company's stores pensioners saved a total of seven billion rubles. Discounts, depending on the store brand, range from 5 to 10 percent. Representatives of X5's main competitor, the Magnit retail chain, declined to talk about plans for citizens of pre-retirement age. The company insists that they have regular bonus programs for pensioners; they refused to talk about changes in the retail chain. Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed Russians on Wednesday, August 29, in connection with the increase in the retirement age. The head of state explained the need for this measure, and also spoke about his proposed mitigation of the reform. In particular, the retirement age for women will be raised not by eight years, as proposed by the government, but by five.

In Belarus, the maximum selling prices of bread and milk will be raised from October 27. This is stated in the official materials of the Ministry of Economy of the republic. Thus, prices for bread and loafs will increase by ten percent, while other bakery products - by three percent. Prices for low-fat dairy products (milk and kefir with a fat content of up to 3.5%, sour cream with a fat content of up to 25%, cottage cheese with a fat content of up to nine percent without flavor additives and fillers) will be increased by 35%. For milk, kefir, sour cream and cottage cheese with high fat content, as well as similar dairy products with flavoring additives and fillers, prices will increase by four percent. The ministry explained that the rise in prices for bakery products should compensate for the rise in grain prices, reduce the loss-making production and saturate the market with "socially important types of bread". Prices for low-fat dairy products are being increased to "interest producers in increasing the output of such products"; now, as the officials noted, the production of such products "has practically ceased due to unprofitability". October 25, minimum prices for vodka and other strong alcohol in Belarus were raised more than one and a half times. In 2011, inflation in Belarus amounted to 108.7%, having more than doubled compared to the previous year. At the same time, food prices rose by 225 percent over the year, while the prices of producers of goods - by 249.4%. Such a sharp rise in prices was caused by the devaluation of the Belarusian ruble, which the authorities were forced to undertake due to the worsened currency crisis last year.

Former International Space Station crew captain Chris Hadfield has become a tourism ambassador for Ireland, Sky News reports. In his new role, he has already recorded four videos in which he tries to learn the peculiarities of the country: he and his children learn the Gaelic language, play Irish field hockey, and visit a brewery. The campaign in which the Canadian space specialist takes part is called "Astronaut's Guide to Ireland" (a similar title to his book "Astronaut's Guide to Earth"). The Irish tourist authority came to Hadfield's attention when he posted photos of Ireland taken on the ISS on his microblog and accompanied them with captions in Gaelic. After the ISS captain announced his retirement, he was contacted and asked to become a tourist ambassador. Hadfield became popular after he recorded a series of videos about the organization of everyday life on the ISS, as well as posted a video on the Web where he performs his version of David Bowie's composition "Space Oddity". In June 2013, the Canadian ended his career as an astronaut.

Britney Spears cut short her concert in Mexico City due to rain, performing only five songs in front of the audience, AFP reports. After the fifth song, she apologized to the audience, said she loved them very much and left the stage. Outraged spectators began throwing chairs and other objects at the stage, with many refusing to leave the stadium. A ticket to the event cost 1,500 pesos, which is equivalent to $150. Fifty thousand people gathered for the concert. It is still unclear how the company that organized the tour is going to compensate the audience for the money spent. Spears has been criticized in the local press for making an obscene gesture to reporters taking pictures of her upon her arrival at Mexico City airport.

Paleontologists have discovered in Gansu Province in north-central China a new species of titanosaurs - plant-eating lizards that lived about 100 million years ago. Description of the new species, named Yongjinglong datangi, published in the journal PLoS ONE, briefly about it can be read on the website of the University of Pennsylvania. The bones that became the object of the study were found in 2008, but until now scientists were not sure who they belonged to. Fossils included teeth, several vertebrae of different sections, part of a rib and fused scapula and crow bone. Scientists from the Paleontological Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the University of Pennsylvania managed to find out the origin of the bones. The analysis showed that the bones belong to an animal of previously unknown species from the group of herbivorous lizard-rotasovyh dinosaurs. Judging by the incomplete fusion of the bones of the shoulder girdle, at the time of death of the lizard, whose bones found paleontologists, was still young. In a mature state, the body size of Yongjinglong datangi should have been about 15-19 meters in length. The first titanosaur bones were discovered back in 1877 in the United States. These lizard-like dinosaurs (sauropods) moved on four legs and were very heavy. Scientists refer Yongjinglong datangi to titanosaurs in the narrow sense, that is, to the clade Titanosauria. The systematics of this group, however, is controversial among paleontologists due to the fact that most of the finds are very poorly preserved.

The Russian government has approved the bill "On additional measures of state support for families with children," RIA Novosti reports. According to the Minister of Health and Social Development of Russia Mikhail Zurabov, the bill provides for the provision of "maternity capital" to families in which a second child was born or adopted. To dispose of funds in the amount of 250 thousand rubles a woman, and in case of her death or deprivation of parental rights, the children's father or guardian, will be able in 2010. The money can be spent on the education of children, improvement of living conditions of the family or formation of the funded part of the pension. At the meeting of the government also approved amendments to the Tax Code, exempting the amount of "maternity capital" from taxation. "If these amendments are approved and the relevant law is adopted, then in this case the amount of maternity family capital will not be subject to taxation, as well as the purchase of housing, payment for educational services, the amount of pension savings will not be taxed," Zurabov said. As Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said after the government meeting, "the document is in a high degree of readiness, and it can be submitted to the State Duma". It is assumed that the new law will be in force from the beginning of 2007.

In the U.S. because of the snowstorm about a million people were left without electricity. This is reported by Associated Press on February 6. On Wednesday, February 5, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland suffered the most from bad weather. By Thursday morning, the electricity supply was resumed to about half of the de-energized homes. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett declared a state of emergency in the state and ordered to use all available resources and emergency personnel in the elimination of the consequences. As CNN notes, up to 25 centimeters of snow has fallen in some areas in the Northeastern United States over the past 24 hours. Forecasts predict continued snowfall over the weekend, but it is expected to be less intense and not bring any significant difficulties for utilities and emergency services. The current winter in the United States is unusually snowy and severe. In many parts of the country, low temperatures have broken multi-year and absolute records.

The European Court of Human Rights has accepted the complaint of a Primorye pensioner Albina Fefilova against the Russian Pension Fund, RIA Novosti reports. The reason for the 69-year-old Vladivostok resident's appeal to the Strasbourg court was that she suddenly found herself owing the fund about two hundred thousand rubles. As her lawyer Olga Ignatieva explained, "the employees of the Pension Fund did not react in time to the changes in legislation and did not recalculate her pension. Before that, Albina Fefilova had been receiving two pensions for many years - old age and survivor's pension. When it turned out that she was entitled to only one, it was too late - the woman was assessed a two hundred thousand dollar debt. Russian courts refused to defend the pensioner, after which it was decided to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. Ignatieva said that she and her client were somewhat surprised by the promptness of their complaint, as they appealed to Strasbourg only at the end of 2006. The lawyer expressed hope for a favorable outcome for her client and said that such a decision of the European Court of Human Rights could become a precedent that could change the provisions of several paragraphs in Russian pension legislation.

